4  —*'T.R.I. ADVISORY CIRCULAR =No.PME

Issued in: February 2024 Serial No. 11/24

SAMPLING FOR SHOT- HOLE BORER ASSESSMENT

(This Advisory Circular supersedes the Advisory Circular PM 1 Serial No. 1/03 issued in February 2003
and related previous Advisory Circulars and links with Advisory Circular PU 4 and PM 2)

It is essential to estimate the infestation level of Shot-hole borer (SHB) (Xyleborus fornicatus
Eichh.), synonym. Euwallacea fornicatus when tea fields are infested with SHB, before deciding
on the appropriate control measures.

1. When to Sample

Immature fields: Sampling should be carried out just prior to first formative prune.

Mature fields: Sampling should be carried out in the final year of the pruning cycle.

2. How to Sample

Sampling should be carried out in one hectare block separately. Blocks could be demarcated by
natural boundaries such as roads, paths, ravines, drains, shade trees efc., wherever possible
(Figure 1).

   
 

Block 2
100 units per {ha

   
   
    
    

Block 1

Block 7

   

Block 6

Block 5

Figure 1: Division of a Field into Blocks for sampling

Sampling should cover the whole extent of the block to obtain a representative sample. It should
comprise 100 standard units per ha, taking not more than one unit per bush. If there is more than
one cultivar in a given field each cultivar should be assessed separately.

3. Standard Units

Having selected a bush at random, remove a primary branch arising from the pruned stem that
would give a piece of stem 10 cm in length. This piece of stem is referred to as a ‘standard unit’.
The selection of the branches should be at random and no attempt be made to select only those
showing signs of galleries.

 
 

 

The standard units should be split open and examined for galleries (Figure 2). When estimating
the incidence of gallery making, one should bear in mind that the number of galleries per sample
unit is immaterial. The unit that has one or more galleries is considered as a single infested unit.

If there is more than one cultivar in a given field each cultivar should be assessed separately

\

Figure 2: The number of units with galleries that is counted

A unit with one gallery (galleried)

A unit with no galleries (not galleried)
A unit with two galleries (galleried)

4. Aunit with three galleries (galleried)

ON>

Number of galleried units = 3
4. Estimation of Infestation

The standard units should be split open and examined for the presence of galleries. The
percentage incidence (as percentage gallery making) of gallery making (G%) is calculated as
follows:

G% = No. of galleried units x 100
Total no. of units sampled

5. Recommendations

 

 

 

 

% Gallery making (G%) Degree of infestation Control measures
0-25% Light Not necessary
26 -50% ‘| Moderate Necessary
51-100% Heavy Compulsory

 

 

 

 

Please refer Advisory Circular PU 4 and PM 2 to implement the control measures appropriate to
the field based on above recommendations.

Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka
Talawakelle

 

COPYRIGHT
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or information storage and retrieval
system without the prior written permission from the Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle

 

 
