T.R.I. ADVISORY CIRCULAR em A |

 

Issued in: February 2024 Serial No. 24/24

INTEGRATED WEED MANAGEMENT IN TEA

(This Advisory Circular supersedes Advisory Circular WM 1 Serial No. 03/13 issued in 2013.
Also this cancels Advisory Circulars WM 2 and WM 3 Serial Nos.10/03 and 11/03, issued in July and
September 2003 respectively)

1. Introduction

Weeds are any plants that grow where they are unwanted or out of place and they interfere with
tea grower’s objectives. There are different types of weed species, in tea fields. The weed species
present in tea lands are summarized in Table 1 based on their morphological classifications.

Table 1: Weed Species present in Tea Lands

 

Broad leaf Ageratum conyzoides (Hulanthala), Asystasia gangetica (Puruk- kola), Bidens
pilosa (Ottu-pillu), Caladium bicolor (Mal Habarala), Commelina diffusa (Gira-
pala), Crassocephalum crepidioides (Thandum- pillu), Erigeron sumatrensis
(Alawungu- pillu), Lantana camara (Ganda-pana), Leucas zeylanica (Geta-
tumba), Miconia crenata (Wal-Bovitiya), Osbeckia octandra (Heen-bowitiya),
Persicaria capitata (Ratu kimbulwenna), Phyllanthus debilis (Ela pitawakka),
Scoparia dulcis (Wal-koththamalli), Sida acuta (Gas-bebila), Solanum
americanum (Kalu kun-  berriya), Spermacoce ocymifolia (Geta-kola),
Sphagneticola trilobata (Arunadevi) etc.

 

Grasses Cenchrus setosus (Nari - naguta), Chrysopogon aciculatus (Thuththiri), Digitaria
abyssinica (Heen Etawara), Eleusine indica (Belathana), Imperata cylindrica
(Illuk), Megathyrsus maximus (Gini-thana), Panicum repens (Etora), Panicum
trichocladum (Kambi-thankola), Setaria barbata (Wal thal kola) etc.

 

 

Sedges Bulbostylis barbata (Uru-Hiri), Cyperus aromaticus, Cyperus brevifolius,
Cyperus mindorensis (Mottu Thana), Cyperus rotundus (Kalanduru), Cyperus
sesquiflorus, Fimbristylis sp. etc.

 

 

 

 

Weeds in tea lands could interfere with the growth of tea by competing for light, space, nutrients
and water, thus affecting the productivity. A dense weed cover could also interfere with routine field
practices such as fertilizer application, plucking, pruning, forking efc., and, could also serve as
alternate hosts for some tea pests and disease organisms.

2. Build-up of Weeds

The abundant occurrence of weeds in tea fields could be attributed to factors such as extensive
areas of exposed soil resulted from poor bush stand, high rainfall, delayed weed control rounds
and surrounding neglected areas serving as weed: seed-banks. The introduction of weed seeds
and vegetative parts with applied compost and mulch, and resorting continuously to a single
herbicide that could lead to resistance development, are other attributes for such development. A
general understanding of the possible causes for weed build-up is important for the tea grower to
select and integrate two or more of the appropriate weed management methods.

{
3. Integrated Weed Management Methods

Weed management in tea lands has to be achieved in an integrated manner. The various practices
adopted include manual, mechanical, chemical, cultural / ecological and biological methods.
Amongst, preventive measures following above methods are very important as their adoption could
help to minimize the cost of weeding.

Integrated Weed Management (IWM), refers to a combination of some or all the above methods, in
a rotational manner throughout the year. IWM utilizes the available know-how on weeds and their
management to achieve cost-effective and eco-friendly weed control (Figure 1).

3.1 Weed Control Calendar

The decision-making process for weed management in tea is based on the weed control calendar
prepared for different regions according to the rainfall pattern, growth stage and bush cover of tea
(Figure 2).

In order to prevent build-up of resistant weed species, maintain the number of herbicide
applications for the year to a minimum (maximum two from a single herbicide), and use a range of
herbicides of different mode of action in rotation than continuing with a single herbicide.

3.2 Special Considerations

In order to arrive at effective weed management method/s, due consideration should be given to .
cost factor, impacts on soil and environment, bush cover and growth stage of tea and the possible
tisk of building up of resistance in weeds etc. Effective weed management also depends on the
accurate identification of weeds (Table 1) and basic understating of their life cycle.
 

pean ayy tidy pue
puemuMop Jo puemdn
S@A0W UBY} S}00)

40 ways ; senea| Aq
paquosge si apioiqiey

payeoojsuesy

ea] ul salBayeyjs (WM!) JUeWeBeUeW; pean pa}esHezU] >; ounbl4

aploiquay ayy YY
yOeIUOD Ul pail St
quejd ayy yo ped ayy

 

 

40 s1wayshg yoejuog,
. (Eg uonsag)
(r'¢ vonses) eeserd
6 quaweBeueyy pean punossead e uejg
iNosB ayy UO Squay 40:

{speam Bumos6 uo {os s1eq 0} uo Aiddy) PUNGID eT UO Suey OSOAES) syed Bunebedoid pue spaas
Aiddyy) uaBiawa-ysog jenpisay/ yuabsswa-a1g sdors pasm Jo 881) Sayain /ysodwoo esp)

494099 sdosd ainuew uses6 qUe|g
Sayoinw jeraiyiye 10 peap jo asp) ee
UdNde JO spow yuasaj sip Sapioiquay Aiddy
(g € uondeg) (5 ¢ uonoes) sassei6 je8) cvs Buy (sdoso 18409 quejq) ainsodxe punasb pony

(9'¢ vonseg) 48.02 punaiB
eyjuezug eveyoeg Bunueld (z¢ :wondg) oie MenReS Suipaam aanosjeg Ayea soy quawa6beuew ysng sadoig Seale eoy-uoU wy spoom ebeueyy

Ag {eonrsedge euey6ig) sses6 : Guipaam yse|
yonoa uedupy yo soujuoD :6°3 SOplIIQie} JO asn jeUOHeYy ap usels siadaaso yo Guyjnd puey syueid e8} Ayyeay quel abeys sapuay je spean abeueyy
 jeoi60)01g feoiwia yD jeaiueysayy fenuey lea1Gojoo3 spesnyng SOINSRBW BANUBAB

 

 

 

 

 

 

eal ul (WAI) JUaWaBeUeW pear, pazesBazuj

 

 
a) Low Country

 

 
 
  
 

Rainfall

b) Mid Country

Pre-

  
    

| emergent
| herbicide

 

Post-emergent herbicide
/Cultural/ Mechanical

 

 

 

 

May Jun

ee

Post-
emergent
herbicide

 

 

 

 

 

Post-emergent herbicide
/ Cultural/ Mechanical

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nov Dec

 

 

Post-emergent herbicide /

 

Rainfall

 

Mulch

 

 

 

    
  
    
 

Manual

 

 

Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun got Aug Sep Oct Nov
c) Up Country
Post-emergent herbicide
‘Cultural / Mechanical

= ; a. 4

R | Pre

= emergent _~

‘a i a ~

g i herbicide — — we ae

 

d) Uva

 
  
     
  

 

Post-
‘emergent
herbicide

  
  

  

 

 

Rainfall

Cultural/ Mechanical

 

 

Jan Feb

 

 

 

 

 

May

jun uh

Dec

 

 

Post-emergent herbicide/
Cultural/ Mechanical

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eee
| Post-emeigent herbicide
Pre- eS

emergent
herbicide

 

Aug sep Oct

Figure 2: Weed Management Calendars for different tea growing regions

 

 

 
3.3 Preventive Measures

The objective of adopting preventive measures is to minimize accumulation of a seed bank i.e.,
weed seeds and propagules in tea lands. It would in turn assist in lowering the cost of
management of the present and future weed population in tea fields. Appropriate preventive
measures that could be adopted are as follows:

e Undertake weeding when weeds are in tender and before the stage of flowering (mature
stage).

e Keep boundaries of tea fields, roadsides, ravines and other areas adjacent to tea fields free of
weeds to prevent the continuous dispersal of weed seeds into tea fields. Any over-grown
weeds in such areas should be kept slashed or in the alternative to prevent seeding for
keeping them under check.

e Plant cover crops in all exposed areas and utilizing uncultivated areas for thatch banks, or
forestry, to suppress indiscriminate weed growth.

e Adopt a year-round weed management programme using weed management calendar
appropriate to the region for timely attention.

e Use compost and mulching materials in a more rational way, by taking due care not to bring
weed seeds and other vegetative parts such as rhizomes, yams, propagules etc. that are
capable of regeneration into tea fields.

3.4 Cultural / Ecological Weed Control Methods

The objective of adopting cultural / ecological techniques is to enable quick establishment of proper
ground cover of land, to suppress the growth of weeds. This could be achieved by adoption of
following practices;

Infilling vacant patches in tea fields with quick growing, early spreading cultivars that would attain a
quick ground cover and thereby shade out the weeds. In old tea fields, where the vacancies are
not expected to be infilled in near future, a suitable grass such as Mana (Cymbopogon
confertiflorus), Guatemala (Tripsicum laxum), Hybrid napier CO-3 (Pennisetum perpureum X
Pennisetum americarnum) or Vetiver (Chrysopogon zizanioides) grass may be planted to avoid
such vacant patches becoming breeding grounds for weeds. These grasses will suppress weeds
due to their smothering and allelopathic effects.

Planting of green manure crops, such as Crotalaria micans (Adanahiriya), Tithonia diversifolia (wild
sun flower), Wild chrysanthemum / Mari Kolondu (Artemisa vulgaris) or Flemingia macrophylla in
vacant patches and as a hedge row for thatching in tea fields is also useful. Cover crops such as
Mal ratakaju (Arachis pintoi) could also be planted on two feet wide strips in middle of the tea inter
rows and Eth undupiyalaiya (Grona ovalifolia) and Indigofera sp. in non-tea areas such as
roadsides, boarders, abandoned lands etc.

Using suitable (i) mulching materials such as Mana, Guatemala, Godapara (Dillenia suffruticosa),
Flemingia macrophylla etc. (ii) artificial agriculture mulch could be used to cover the inter-row
spaces as effective mulching sources.

Adoption of all possible measures to encourage the early development of frames in the tea bush
and maintaining bush stand is essential in minimizing the potentials of weed emergence. This
could be achieved using healthy and well spreading nursery plants in new clearings, proper infilling
programs, adoption of Good Agricultural Practices ensuring implementation of timely bringing-into-
bearing to enhance spread of peripheral branches of the bush.

 
3.5 Manual Weeding

Manual weeding could be undertaken either by exclusively “hand-pulling” weeds or by “slash
weeding”, as described below:

Hand pulling is the removal of weeds totally by hand. Although a costly operation, it is a safer
method than chemical weeding.

Clean weeding by using a scraper should be strongly discouraged. Selective weeding should be
advocated, where shallow rooted soft herbs such as Centella asiatica (Gotukola), Drymaria cordata
(Kadalai kodi), Grona triflora, (Heen undupiyaliya), Euphorbia scordiifolia (Heendada keeriya),
Oxalis sp. (Ambul ambiliya), Stemodia verticillata, Mollugo pentaphylla etc. which are beneficial are
retained to serve as a live ground cover.

Digging the soil to remove tuberous or rhizomatous weeds is not advocated because such practice
could aggravate weed infestation arising through regrowth of fragmented underground plant parts
that are capable of regeneration.

Weeds that are resistant to herbicides should be hand pulled, along with other free-growing weeds.

All creeping weeds such as Anredera cordifolia (Passali kodi), Camonea pilosa (Maha-Madu/Kiri-
madu-vael), /pomoea sp. (Railway glory/ Morning glory), Mikania sp. (Watupalu/Lokapalu),
Neustanthus phaseoloides (Pohora- wel), Xenostegia tridentata (Heen madu wel) efc. should be
removed manually.

All the weeds that are removed from a tea field should be piled up in a wooden cage within the tea
block. It is necessary to mix up the heap once in a while, to check and remove re-growing
tuberous, rhizomatous weeds. Weeds should be used for composting only after picking out the
yams, bulbils and other vegetative parts capable of regeneration, and destroying them.

3.6 Mechanical Weeding

Slash weeding is the removal of weeds by cutting them at the base with a hoe/cutter in mechanical
weeder. Woody, grass and deep-rooted perennial weeds, that resist removal by hand or herbicide,
should be slashed. Continual slashing will result in a gradual decline in weed seed population in
the soil.

Mechanical Weeding using grass cutters (with a proper guard) is more suitable for tea lands with
large vacant patches.

It should be noted that recovery of weeds is faster with continual use of slashing.

3.7 Chemical Weed Control

Chemical weed control among other various weed management techniques available under IWM is
economically important in tea. Selection of herbicides should be based on the type of weed
species, growth stage of tea, growth cycle of weeds and the weed control calendar introduced to
respective regions. Precautionary measures should be adopted in the use of herbicides to avoid
any non-target effects to the crop, humans and the environment.

Please refer to Advisory Circular PU 3 for details of different herbicides recommended for tea,
modes of action, dosages and precautionary measures.
3.8 Biological Weed Control

Biological weed control is defined as an activity aimed at decreasing the weed species population
to an acceptable level through the use of a living organism. In tea fields, there are only a few
 

competitive plant species that can control another weed species by competing with it for one or
more growth factors (water, nutrients and light). Biological control in tea could be termed more
appropriately as ecological control. Control of African couch (Digitaria abyssinica) by planting
Brachiaria brizantha is one such example in tea lands.

Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka

Talawakelle

 

COPYRIGHT

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or information storage and retrieval]
system without the prior written permission from the Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle

 

 

 
