Issued in: February 2024 Serial No. 17/24

CONTROL OF WHITE GRUBS

(This Advisory Circular Supersedes Advisory Circular PM 7 Serial No. 04/02 issued in November 2002 and
related previous Advisory Circulars and links to PU 4)

1. Introduction

The root-feeding larvae of scarabaeid beetles (chafers or cockchafers) are commonly known as
“white grubs” and about 90% of the reported damage in tea is in new clearings. Damage is also
seen in tea nurseries, new clearings, infilling blocks, mana or Guatemala clearings and
occasionally in fuel wood clearings. The damage in new clearings is significant in the following
areas: Udapussellawa, Dimbula, Maturata, Pundaluoya, Pussellawa, Kotmale, Madulsima,
Dickoya, Welimada, Nuwara Eliya, Haputale, Dolosbage, Hewaheta, Passara, Ratnapura and
Galle. It is recommended that the plantations in Udapussellawa, Dimbula and Maturata districts
should protect their new clearings from white grub damage as a routine practice through
prophylactic treatments. Also, proper vigilance should be maintained to detect early infestation of
white grubs.

2. Cyclic Pattern of White Grub Development

The adult beetles deposit their eggs in the soil from about March to June. Large numbers of these
beetles are often attracted to lights in March/April. The ovipositing beetles can be encountered
underneath thatch covers or in the surface soil. The larvae start emerging from eggs from about
June until about August. The feeding grubs, which assume a “C” shape when exposed, are found
in the soil from June to November. Pupation commences generally in October, reaching a peak in
January of the following year. The chronological pattern of the life cycle of cockchafers is the same
in both south-west and north-east monsoon zones.

3. Damage Symptoms

Of the different species of white grubs found in tea lands Holotrichia disparilis and Microtrichia
costata cause economically significant injury to young plants in new clearings. The grubs can move
from plant to plant. H. disparilis often chews the roots off completely, leaving a callused stump from
which the plant may attempt to regenerate new roots. The grubs can also, ring-bark the young
plants at the collar. M. costata may also, attack shade trees such as Acacia decurrence.

Anomala superflua is a low country species attacking mainly timber species like Teak and also,
nursery plants and occasionally tea roots. Leucopholis pinguis attacks grasses, at times completely
devouring the roots like in Mana and not allowing the grasses to recover. Damage to Guatemala
does not generally kill the grass as adventitious develop from nodes above the damaged section.

4. Attraction to Organic Matter

All attacks have been encountered in soils rich in decaying organic matter. The grubs are found
predominantly in areas of the fields having high organic matter content and hardly any in sandy
and gravelly areas. When compost is used in planting holes and or as soil amendments, white grub
adults could be attracted.

) T.R.I. ADVISORY CIRCULAR No.PME@

 
 

5. Integrated Approach to Manage White Grubs
5.1 Land Preparation

Forking and cultivation of soil during land preparation will facilitate the exposure of white grubs to
predators such as birds.

5.2 Light Traps

Light traps placed during March-May in white grub-prone areas will trap adult beetles in dispersal
flight.

5.3 Special Care with Agronomic Operations
To avoid white grub adult attraction, special attention and care should be taken for when

i. compost is used in planting holes and or as soil amendments.
ii, live mulches such as Mana, grasses etc are used.
iii. organic matter is broadcast in tea lands i.e. compost, reclaimable tea and paddy husk etc.

5.4 Artificial Mulching

Artificial agriculture mulch restricts egg laying by adult beetles around tea bushes. Thatching
should be done prior to the egg laying period which usually begins from March to May.

5.5 Chemical Control

The grubs have an extended feeding period of about 8 months. Tea plants can succumb to grub
damage during the 1-3 years. The new clearings should be protected from the grubs during June-
October. Repeat application may be necessary in 2" year if the grubs are active in the field during
June- October.

Please refer to Advisory Circular PU 4 to select recommended chemicals and dosages.

Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka
Talawakelle

 

COPYRIGHT

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or information storage and retrieval
system without the prior written permission from the Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle

 

 
