*

REGISTERED POST . ' , No, MF/HL. 67
. sri Tanka Tea Beard
Tea Commissioner’; Division
P.0, Box 263
. Goloxibe 4,

S1st December, 1985,

Stare eee re er eh ntawrecn nen eteoan
Farr eee aer era reer di nnweenacaee

ie eee ee ee se ee

Dear Sir,

Mazafacture of Made Tea of Good Quality

I wish to bring to your notice that for the past 11 months of 1995,
the net sale average price of tea scold ty your factory at the Colombo Aueticns
has always. been below the net elevational averaga pries. ‘this performance is
considered quite unsatisfactory and Gisappointing. These poor prices indicate
that the quality of the tea produced in your factory has been ccnstantly bolo
ayerags, which has resulted in suppliers of evoen leaf ta your factory rocetving
pricsos well below the avarage price received by amall-noldars in that elevational
category. -. ‘

Ze “It is vory important that you take necessary action to Anprove the
quality of teas manufactured at your factory, by improving the standard ui
processing, You should alsocxervise contrcl on the standard of leat pormitted
to bo processed in your factory, ‘

3. fo wiah to inform you that the perfermance of your factory will be
closely monitored by ia in the coltng mnths. Please therefore mke overy
effort te improve the quality of teas cfitered for sale,

Son J also wish tc tring iv your novace’ the following provision under
Section B(Z) of the Toa Control Act, No.54 of 1957:-

"The Commisiuiuner may cancel the registration of any
_tea factory if ne is satisfied, after such enguim;
as he my dean necessary, that tha building, or
equipment, or manner of’ operation of such Cactory is
not cf 4 standam conduclve to the manufacture of
mide tea of soot quality."

5, If the performance of’ your factory fails to show any improvement, T
will be reluctantly compelled to take setion in tertes of the above previsicn,

5, Please acknowledge receipt of this letter,

Yours faithfuily,
Sed. GA. de Silva

TEA COMMISSLONGR,

Copy to: 1. S/P.I.
2» Directcr General
Oo. Internal Auditor
“« Seoretary, Planters’ Association of Geylen
5, All Field 2ffisors.

3 Sri Lanka Tea Board
