, F
TRANSLATION | | : |
Circulam Letter No.sl/BI, 62 Sri Lanka’Tea Board

Tea Commissioner's Division
P.O.Box 363, Colombo.w

  

30th August, 1984.

fo: All Registered Tea Manufacturers
Dear Sir/Madan, |

Payment of a Reasonable Price for Green Leaf

| purchased by Tea Factories

, Reference is requested to my Circular Letter No eMF/BL.60 of 6th February
1984, regarding the formla for calculating the reasonable price payable for
green leaf. |

Ze The Government has decided to adopt the following measures in order to
_ ensure proper payment to green leaf producers by Licensed Dealers:

(i) Each Licensed’ Dealer in green leaf shall be attached to one
Bought Leaf factory for the purpose of supplying his collected
leaf for manufacture. However, he could deliver leaf to more —
than one factory by explaining such necessity and obtaining
prior approval from the Tea Commissioner. In unavoidable
circumstances, such as any breakdown in the manufacturing
process in the allotted. factory, a Licensed Dealer may deliver
the leaf collected by him to any other factory with the consent
of the manufacturer of that factory. He should inform the Tea

Commissioner of such delivery with relevant details; os

(ii) Kvery Licensed Dealer should,submit once a fortnight, to the “
factory allotted to him, a list of suppliers containing their |
nawes and addresses, the registered number of the tea lands,
and -the quantity of leaf supplied by each of then;

' | : a

i; (iii) Every Licensed Dealer should obtain in duplicate, receipts for
payment made by him to green leaf suppliers and submit the

t duplicates of such receipts to the factory concerned. |

3. © Commencing from the month of October 1984, you should inform in writing,’

every supplier who has delivered leaf to the factory direct or through a Licensed

.Dealer, the quantity of green leaf supplied by him during the previous month and

the rato payable per kilogranume of leaf.(Specimen form attached). |

ew wre.

4 In this connection, your attention is drawn to the provisions of the

Tea Control act, No.51 of 1957, wherein Registered Manufacturers purchasing green
leaf are required to maintain a Register on Form TC.15 giving details of leaf
purchased and obtain declarations on Form TC.19 in support thereof. These
documents should be naintained daily and made available for inspection whenever
required by field officers of this Department and the Tea Small Holdings
Developuent Authority. Oo ~

De You are also kindly requested to retain the lists of leaf suppliers and
the duplicate receipts which are delivered to you by the Licensed Dealers for _
a period of ane year, and produce then for inspection whenever required. You
should also ensure that the correct rates, are paid to your leaf suppliers in
terms of my circular letter No. MF/BL.60. Specinen form of receipt to be
obtained is attached. . 4

6. Also, please inform me on or before 10th September 1984, the approximate
manufacturing capacity for Bought Leaf-at your factory, in terms of green leaf —
per day.

7. Please acknowledge receipt of this circular letter.

Yours faithfully

Sed/~ G.a.de Silva.
cc to:- | | Tea Commissioner.
1. S/P.I.
2e Director General )
3. Internal Auditor )
$s General Manager - TSHDa/JweDB/SLSPC/LAC
Oo. ALE YW Od ¢ ficers,

Sri Lanka Tea Board
