. G Eos) GB OD|OES
aoey AQotionas CHullmevd sFenu
SRI LANKA TEA BOARD

ares, Gatapicy). Gloviyns

ag O16, eME®D 33 @ eccm®
5
Galle Road, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka

 

ee

OR/1/55

aot May 20nL.

All Registered Manufacturers of Tea,
Sirs,

Offering of Teas at the Colombo Tea Auction by Licensed Tea Brokers
with Hand Written Marks and Numbers.

At the Board meeting held on 12'* February 2011 warehousing of tea by selling
brokers of tea prior to the auction and up to the collection of Jots soll and
identification marks and numbers on packages so stored and sold were dis nesed in
relation to the CTTA Bye-laws and conditions of sale of tea under the Anetion. Hts
noted that under condition 5 of the Bye-laws and conditions of sale “oll
packages should have the labeling printed/ stenciled usin foo! rere
Dlaek vale.” But it has been observed that broker’s warehouses dir carry teas
where labeling _is handwrilten, contravening the Crhs Pye-baws 4
conditions of sale specified under condition 5.

  

ne ! }

oo. The necessary directives have already been conveyed te all: ryakers
ten in terms of the provision of the Licensing of Produce Brokers (Te) Rooulatios
1a70,

1. Not to aceept any lot from any regio cred manufacturer of tea cms Fs ialered
tea factory with hand written or sticker pasted marks of Inv. Nofs, Garde
Marks, Number of packages, Factory Registration Number Grade ele
‘1. Not to catalogue any lot with hand written marks or sticker pasted nial
Inv. No/s, Garden Marks, Number of packages, Factory Recietration Nambes
Grade etc.

cling by ees Wh dye!

 

i. Ifany lot found stored in any warehouse used by any
written marks or sticker pasted marks i will treated as contravention of th
above Regulation.
iv. ‘Phe above directives were implemented of ort Marek oo

 
=

3. The Board decided that the though the above contraventions are direct!
ynnected to the selling brokers of tea who are accredited agents of registered
ianufacturers of tea the adherence of similar conditions specified in the said Bye-
ws & Conditions is equally the responsibility of all registered manufactirers/ tea
ictories. You are therefore required to follow the under mentioned directives as and
then made teas are offered at the auction through your selling braber’: sith
nmediate effect,

 

 

        

I Netto deliver any dot os any registered tea factory with tain) voetthn os
sticker pasted marks Inv. No/s, Garden Marks, Munibor of oct
Factors Pevistration ie Grade ete.

I. ff any tot found delivered and stored in any warehouse used ts an
broker on behalf of vou with hand writlen merks or sticker gate bios
will treat ited as contravention of the Tea Contrel Act Mo stot tore :
| Tou Board Law No 14 of 1975 andas such aelion titerme ofthe soot
be tolennacainst such contraventions.

HI ‘Phe nhove directives are implemented with immediate otfoet,
WW. Peany tat detected with hand wrillen or stichor pasted: arvac!
Cordon Marks, Number of packages, Pactory Lvation Mas rf \
rth tote sil not be allowed to be sold trans arsrerced ohana

Vo ffs fot deteeted with hand written or sticber pasted: marks ot
(iorden Marks, Number of packages, Paclory Pegi tration Muneber Ce boot
no nermission is granted to repack (hem anvivhere else ether hao

resection Loa factory premises.

og. Any further clarifieations on the subject netier cond |
contacting the undersigned.

Vorme tit ily,

M. HL. B. me

a

 

lemaratne
Director General
Srifenks Tea Board

 

Compress + Chairman, Colombo Tea Traders Association.
»~ Chairman, Sri Lanka Private Tea Factory Owner's Association
Chairman, The Planter’s Association of Cevton,
§ Chairman, Colombo Broker's Association.
5 Chairman, Janatha Estate Development Board,
©. Chairman, Sri Lanka State Plantation Corporation.
= Chief Executive Officer, Tea Shakthi Fund.
‘, Managing Director, Kalubovitivana Tea Factoring Tite
oO. Chairman, Tea Small I loldings Development Authority.
to Direetar, Ten Pesearch Tnstituke.

 

be Netty) Pay Compniesioner =| Pleace daform fl Pecionel
