rae NE HL
B Eo=m GS OPIHEG ath
Qomnas Csilenvs FOU
SRI LANKA TEA BOARD

ME CI. GME® 3. @ Gomd

574 ere fh Hi, Glarepby , Qeviisnes
Galle Road, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka.

 

 

CIRCULAR

 

OR/1/51
07" April 2010.

Chief Executive Officers/Managing Directors of
All Licensed Produced Brokers of Tea,

Dear Sir,
RIVATE AUCTION OF PRODUCE BROKERS ON FRIDAY

PRIVATE AUCTION OF PRODUCE EE
Reference the discussions that the members of the Colombo Brokers Association had
with us on 08" & 22"¢ January 2010 and our Circular No OR/1/51 of 08" January 2010 on the
subject matter.

02. As agreed at the discussion the directives of the Circular under reference are
withdrawn.

03. In order to regularize the existing methodology adopted by all produce brokers the
following mechanism has been approved by the Board with immediate effect.

(a) All licensed produce brokers should forward pre-sale catalogue to the Sri Lanka Tea Board
2 days prior to sale/auction.

(b) All licensed produce brokers should furnish certified sale catalogue to the Sri Lanka Tea
Board immediately after the sale/auction

(c) All licensed produce brokers should indicate full name and address of respective buyers of
Bin Teas at the private Auction/Tender Sale on Fridays in their certified catalogue.

(d) Bin Teas from any exporter /manufacturer /processor/ transporter/ Forwarder/ Packer/
other broker/ dealer/ warehouseman should not be accepted for sale at the said private
auction/ tender sale on Fridays.

(e) SLTB would closely monitor buyers’ legal status based on the certified catalogue forwarded
by selling brokers.

(f) If any selling Broker does not conduct Private Auction/ Tender sale such broker should
forward NLL statement to the Sri Lanka Tea Board.

(g) Details of teas sold under Private Auction by produce Brokers on Fridays should be
declared on a MONTHLY basis to the Sri Lanka Tea Board by using the attached format.
FORM PA/F

(h) If any broker does not furnish required statement prior to the sale but conduct the sale
that broker will be categorized as a broker who contravenes the Licensing of Produce
Brokers Act No 9 of 1979 and action shall be taken accordingly.

1 2582121 ove : DL.GO. DcB QOd OD ead. eme®.
veuAl 2582122 use: 2589132 §. Olu. 1750 Sib Cgerog Far CET’
ne 2583687 Fax P.O.Box Telegrams TEA BOARD,COLOMBC

2587814 E-mail: teaboard@pureceylontea.com Web Site : www.pureceylontea.com

 
  

03. For any further clarification on the matters included herein you are free to contact the
Director General of the Sri Lanka Tea Board (Tel.2508991).

04. Please acknowledge receipt of this circular.

Yours truly,

WS
Lalith HMtdrachchi

Chairman
Sri Lanka Tea Board

Copies:1. Secretary, Ministry of Plantation Industries.
2 Chairman, Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.
3 Chairman, Colombo Tea Traders Association.
4 Chairman, Colombo Brokers Association.
5. Chairman, Tea Exporters Association.
6. Chairman, The Planters Association of Ceylon.
7 Chairman, Private Tea Factory Owners Association.
8 Chairman, Tea Small Holdings Development Authority.
9 Hon. President, Federation of Tea Small Holdings Development Societies of Sri
Lanka.
10. Chairman, Association of Medium and Small Exporters of Tea.
ll Chairman, Tea Research Board of Sri Lanka.
wie, Acting Tea Commissioner.
13. | Deputy Tea Commissioner (Exports).
14. | Deputy Director (Technical) — TTU.
15. Assistant Director (Lab.)

 
