8 Com Ga OMDeEc
Gonmags Coulee Fonu
SRI LANKA TEA BOARD
ME 6, ENE® 3. 8 GormO

574 are J, Gerapiny , Reruns,
Galle Road, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka.

 

 

ircular No. OR/1/51
o5t July 2010.

To: Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director of
Registered Exporters of Tea
Registered Manufacturers of Tea
Licensed Produce Brokers of Tea

Sir,
Damaged Made Tea due to Natural Causes and otherwise

Sri Lanka Tea Board observes that owners of made tea, in various stages of the
disposal channels manage to minimize their losses, due to damages caused to made tea
on account of natural causes or otherwise through insurance covers. This loss recovery
mechanism culminates with the releasing of a considerable volume of damaged teas,
which are either contaminated with Microbiological elements or Chemical substances in
to the export blends through unscrupulous parties. This has tarnished the image of
‘Ceylon Tea’ abroad, damaging the reputation established by the exporters, over decades
of hard work.

02. Considering the adverse repercussion of the said unethical trading practice, it has
sant been decided to monitor such transactions, with immediate effect.

03. Where any tea is damaged due to natural causes and otherwise that will deem the
said tea unfit for sale through approved channels or otherwise, shall be declared by the
registered exporter, manufacturer or produce broker to the Sri Lanka Tea Board, within
a period of one week from the said incident: and an acknowledgement obtained.
Specimen Form for this purpose is annexed. No such teas should be released to an
insurance company or its agent or any other person without the prior written consent of
the Sri Lanka Tea Board.

 

66m0a0 2582121 ond : DL.e0. dcé ds 5 eid, em¢g@. :
OgtanwGuA 2582122 uéeD : 2589132 5. Olu. 1750 SpA Cz Gews Fonu Clamupioy
Telephone 2583687 Fax: P.O.Box Telegrams TEA BOARD,COLOMBO.

HotLine 2587814 : E-nail: teaboard@pureceylontea.com WebSite : www.pureceylontea.com
 

04.

liable to be suspended.

Please acknowledge receipt of this Circular.

Yours truly,

 

H.0).Hemaratne
Director General
Sri Lanka Tea Board

Copy:

 

- 2-

In the case of any party failing to comply with this directive, its x

 

1. Chairman, Insurance Board of Sri Lanka.

2. Chairman, Colombo Tea Traders Association.

3. Chairman, Tea Exporters Association. <p
42, Chairman, Colombo Brokers Association. we
5. Chairman, The Planters Association of Ceylon. be Ks

6. Chairman, Private Tea Factory Owners Association.
7. Chairman, Association of Small & Medium Exporters of Tea.
8. Director — Tea Promotion, [TPD.

«9. Acting Tea Commissioner.

10. Deputy Tea Commissioner (Exports)

11. Deputy Director (Tech.) Tea Tasting Unit.

12. Assistant Director (Lab).

13. Managing Directors/CEOs of all Insurance Companies.
Its
“Peay; TB /. ‘DMT
QS
furnished to the Director General, Sri Lanka Tea Board, 574, Galle Road,

abo 03 within 7 days of the damaged caused.
Application for Approval to Dispose of
Damaged Made Tea due to Natural Causes and/or otherwise
4. Name and Addressed of the Applicant:-
2. Name and address of the owner of Tea:-
3. (a) How was the damaged caused?

(b) | When was the damage happened?

4. Details of damaged Teas:-

 

Identification Date of Grade No. of Total Location of DamagedTea
Mark & Sale/Bro.Lot of Tea Packages and Quantity Address
Numbers No./Inv.No Net weight (Kg)
Blend No. (kg)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(If the space above is not sufficient enough please use attachment as per the above table)

5. Name and Address of the Insurance Company:

6. Insurance Policy No. & date and date of expiry:-

7. Damaged Teas stored in the premises for what purpose:-

(

I/We hereby declared that the information furnished above are true and accurate and
assured the salvaged teas are not disposed without written approval from the Sri Lanka

Tea Board.

Signature of the applicant/Owner of damaged tea Date:
