: é
ve No: RYM/01/2005/11/01

‘0 Sri Lanka Tea Board
Tea Commissioner's Division

 

To all Registered Tea Manufacturers

 

Directions given under Section §(2) of the Tea Control Act No. 51 of
1957 as amended, to preserve the naturainess of made tea.

tl ee ee ee

 

1, Section 8(2) of the Tea Control Act No. 51 of 1957 as amended requires
that the ummuer of operation (the (ea manufacturing process) of a lea
factory should be conducive to the manufacture of made tea of good
quality. Tea is a natural drink derived from the tea plant (Camellia
sinensis), Accordingly, the manner of operation of a tea factory should
guarantee the preservation of ihe ualuraluess of uuade ea.

nN

The naturalness of made tea will be harmed if attempts are made to
enhance the blackness of tea by artificial means.

3. Artificial means of enhancing the blackness of tea result in a product
containing foreign substances harmful to huauan health and depleted of ils
natural substances which destroys the naturalness of tea and hence, its
quality from the point of view of its final customer. It can bring about a
total rejection of Sri Lankan tea from the international market with serious
repercussions ou ihe econouy of Sri Lanka. Another serivus cepercussion

would be the encouragement of the supply of sub standard leaf.

4. Accordingly, in order to preserve the naturalness of made tea, by virtue of
the powers vested in mé’by'Sevtion'8(Z) of the Tea Control Act No. 51 of
1957 as amended, you aré hereby directed to;

i, Refrain from making any attempts to artificially blacken tea.

ii. Refrain from storing any substance that could be used to artificially
blacken tea within the tea factory or its premises. These substances
include inter alia, substances that are purported to be natural, such
as commercially available enzymes.

5. Within the meaning of section 8(2) of the Tea Control Act No, 51 of 1957 as
amended, blackening tea by artificial means shall be considered as nmaking
the manner of operation of a tea factory to a standard non-conducive to
manufacture made tea of good quality. Accordingly, steps shall be taken
to suspend or cancel the registration of such tea factory.

Non-compliance with the above directions shall be considered as an
offence under section 39 of the aforesaid act. Accordingly, by the powers
vested in me by Section 5& (3) of the aforesaid act, I have empowered
officers authorized by me to enter any tea factory without prior notice or
break into any tea factory at any time of the day where there is reasonable
grounds to believe that this offence is being comunitted.

By the powers vested in me by Section 55(2) of the aforesaid act, I have
empowered officers authorized by me to demand any record and any
declaration (either verbal or written) and make copies of any entries in
such records or dedaraliuns, obtain photographs and samples of
substances found in violation of the aforesaid directions, as evidence. By
the powers vested in me by section 14(a) of the Tea (Tax and Control) of
Exports Act No. 16 of 1959 as amended the officers authorized by me shall

be empowered to remove samples of tea for testing the quality.
Cont'd...2/-

 
11.

12.

 

registered tea manufacturer who makes defawt in complying with

aforesaid directions shall be guilty of making the manner of operation

the factory non conducive to manufacture made tea of good quality and

sy the powers vested in ine by section 8(2) of the aforesaid act, the
registration of such factory may be suspended or cancelled.

Under section 39 of the aforesaid act, every person who makes default in
complying with the aforesaid directions shall be guilty of an offence.

Under section 40 of the aforesaid act, every person who resists or
obstructs my authorized officers in the performance or exercise of their
legitimate duties shall be guilty of an offence.

Under section 45 of the aforesaid act, every person who is guilty of an
offence shall be prosecuted and on conviction after sumunery trial before a
magistrate be liable to a fine of Rs. 50,000/- or to a term of imprisonment
with or without hard labour for a period of one year or to both such fine
and imprisonment.

These directions have been given on the 015 of November 2005, at the Sri
Lanka Tea Board in Colombo.

Loos

imal Udugampola .

2a Commissioner Ninal Udugampola
. ~ : Tea Commissioner

pies:

 

(01) Secretary, Ministry of Plantation Industries.
(02) Chairman/ Director General, Sri Lanka Tea Board.
(03) Chairman, JEDB/SLSPC

(04) Deputy Tea Commissioner (Exports).

(05) Asst. Tea Commissioners/Tea Instructors/ Inspectors.

(06) Chairman, Private Tea Factory Owners’ Association.

(07) Chief Executive Officers, Plantation Management Companies.

(08) Secretary General, The Planters’ Association of Ceylon.

(09) Chief Internal Auditor, Sri Lanka Tea Board.

(10) Chairman, Colombo Tea Traders’ Association.

(11) All Brokers of Tea.

(12) Superintendent, Government Audit.

(13) Director, Tea Research Institute. + Please copy this to all your regional
extension centers.

(14) Chairman, Tea Small Holding Development Authority:- Please copy this
to all your Regional Managers.

(15) Chairman, Tea Shakthi Fund.
