. TRANSLATION.
xECISTERSD POST

 

SRI LANKA TSA BOARD

ee

574, Galle Road,
Colombo 3-«

CUNFIDENTT AL, : r : 10th January, 19866

To: All Registered Manufacturers of Tea

yom: The Chaixman, Sri Lanka Tea Board

INTRODUCTION OF POLSONOUS:.SUBSPANCES
PY imo MBA Se

Sn eee

-As you are aware, rumours are afloat that persons who wish to harm
the country are attempting to introduce’, poisonous substances into our teas
with the intention of tarnishing.the image of Ceylon Tea. Hence, it is :
opporturie-for us to take special. precautions now: to prevent .any such. -
attempts. In order to safeguard ourselves in this matter, you are kindly
. equested toitake, the following measures ‘=. . .
es (4). that special attention be, paid to prevent any

ee : unauthorised persons..bringing in any chemicals
/iabo the:tea factory; : - ’

. ~ @. ‘
(2) that no persons be permitted to consume food within «
_ the factory; Mery He : 7

(3) «that factory personnel be well screened before they
enter the factory;

. (4) that fired tea be graded as:soon’ as possible and‘
, locked in bins. Special arrangements: may be

». mecessary in cértain factories-to ‘provide ‘extra.

- bins; S in oY 4 Paige - :

that factory workers ibe’ selected, .on the ‘basis of

“absolute reliability;

 

‘that, all -factory staff, be screened and checked out
with the Army or the Police in order to determine

. whether they are’ connected with the terrorist
* movements. 5's 6? iy Oe : .

(7) » that special precautionary measures be taken to ensure
that tea in transit or, storage are not tampered withe
You may also inform your Selling Brekers accordingly.

(8) It-will always be useful to evolve systems which will
- enable:us to check back in case an incident occurse
. Documentation should be improved so that it may be
‘possible. to identify the dates on witich a particular
invoice was manufactured and packed, and which members
iia | tees and work ‘force, were responsible for dealing
with it; : 4

(9) The problems should be studied adequately by Superin=
tendents and others and appropriate systems evolved.

Please acknowledge receipt.

Sgde H.D.T. Bodnidasa

~ a CHAIRMAN
; 5 SRI LaNKA TEA BOARD

\
