Qotinss CGaulmvs Fou

‘ © By (Ow!) GQ) SHIA Sw

SRI LANKA TEA BOARD
SRI LANKA TEA BOARD
en eme@candd G0@G TEA RR BON eS, diviEQe
Csulony soorurerit wifey No. eyaaea es
TEA COMMISSIONER'S DIVISION er SRI UARKAL

 

Ref TCEVi6e8-Vol I
7" March 2003

TO: ALLREGISTERED EXPORTERS OF TEA

 

Qn the recommendation of the Regulatory Review Task Force, which have been approved
by the Ministry of Plantation Industries and the Sri Lanka Tea Board it was agreed that
importation of Orthodox teas from other origins to Sri Lanka will be allowed under a very
closed monitoring mechanism.

2, Teas can be imported to Sri Lanka on payment of the prevailing Import Tariff (25%
aggording to the Customs Tariff Guide — 1999) provided the quality of teas;

(a) arg above the minimum quality standard ISO 3720 for black tea.
(b) = are free of any chemical biological or any other contamination
(c) are free of banned pesticides or any other pesticides residues.

t = 3. Types of teas that could be imported ar¢ orthodox teas from other origins except teas of
off-grades and dust. The procedure to be adopted for the scheme for importation of orthodox
teas under tariff regime from other. origins is as follows:

@ Prior to importation, the importer should forward offer samples (each

grade/standard sample) in duplicate to the Tea Exports Section of ths 5 oa Lanka
Tea Board together with the Form IT/IMAL.

(ii) Immediately after the quality clearance of tea based on the offer samples
forwarded, approval for importation will be granted.

(iii) | Immediately upon arrival of the teas at 6 approved warehouse, the Importer
should forward the duly-filled Form IT/AM/UL to Deputy Tea Commissioner
(Exports). Samples will be drawn from each and every grade/invoice/standard by
the Tea Board officials for comparison and examination for the stipulated
standards laid down under the above procedure and approval will be given for

amen

      
   

  
 
 

   

290. 8 god «m9. eme2
g-Au. 363 oo ° Oamibdig., GQairap by
P.Q.Box Felegrams COMTEA, COLOMBO.
uae > SRO}b) Fax > S8oibl , SATAY
Sek ah E- mail : tea comrg @sitnet.lk

= ah -

 
