T.R.I. ADVISORY CIRCULAR __No.LU JE

 

Issued in: October 2002 Serial No. 3/02

GUIDELINES ON LAND SUITABILITY CLASSIFICATION FOR TEA

The selection of land according to its suitability has become increasingly important in
making the best use of available land for tea cultivation. It is not appropriate for a
single set of norms to be established for all tea-growing areas, since this will not take
into account regional differences caused by variations in elevation and climate, which
are likely to exert a strong influence on land suitability.

The term “land” includes many attributes such as climate, topography, soil and its
genesis, vegetation, the presence of soil microorganisms and the effects of human
activity. Land can be classified according to its agricultural suitability. Performance of
lands, under different management systems, can be predicted. The potential and
limitations of land intended for tea-growing can be determined by its physical, chemical
and biological features.

Land classification can simplify management and decision-making on new planting,
replanting, infilling, diversification and conservation of tea lands. It also helps to assess
the long-term production trends and investment needs for enhanced productivity.

There are many factors that determine land suitability for tea. The most important
factors are climate, slope, soil depth, surface rockiness and gravel content. Certain of
these factors could be limiting factors. A simplified !and suitability classification for tea

can be based on limitations imposed by these factors and their interactions (Tables 1a
and 1b).

Table 1a. Criteria for classifying lands according to their suitability for
tea - single limitations

 

Climate (agro- Limiting Factor Degree of limitation
ecological
Surface Gravel
rockiness { (Vol.% in top
% 50cm:

region)
WU 231U 23 0-10 None
Uy 10-20 Moderate

All other up - >20 Severe
count ji

Regions above
900 m elevation

Regions between
300 - 900 m
elevation

WM 3 None

WM 2 & IMa Moderate

Ali other mid -
regi

Severe

Regions below
300 m elevation

None
Moderate
Severe

 

 
Table 1b. Criteria for classifying lands according to their suitability for
tea - dual moderate limitations

 

   

 

Moderate Climate Slope Soil Surface Gravel
limitations depth rockiness

Climate Class 2 Class 3 Class 4 Class 3 Class 3
Slope » 3 uo 2 » 4 3 » 3
Soil depth 4 4 : 2 3 4
Surface : 3 " 3 3 2 ” 3
rockiness

Gravel 3 ” 3 , 4 3 2

 

 

 

The degree of limitation increases progressively from Class 1 to Class 4 (Table 2).
Class 1, Class 2 and Class 3 are considered suitable for tea growing while Class 4 is
considered unsuitable.

Table 2. Land suitability classification based on limitations

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Suitability | Degree of Limitation Suitability
Class
Class 1 No significant limitation Highly suitable
Fo : |

Class 2 Moderate single limitation Suitable
Class 3 Moderate, dual limitations Moderately suitable
Class 4 One or more severe limitations, strongly | Unsuitable

interacting dual limitations or multiple moderate

limitations

as

 

(This classification is a modification of that in the paper by K A de Alwis, L H Fernando,
S E Jayasooriya, S Kulasegaram, M B A Perera, S Sandanam, S Sivasubramaniam
and D T Wettasinghe, 1980: “A simplified land suitability classification for tea” in Tea
Quarterly 49 (2) 5-12, Tea Research Institute, Talawakelle).

Methodology for Assessing the Limiting Factors

1. The slope of the land is measured using a clinometer.

2. The surface rockiness of the land is estimated by measuring the extent covered
by rocks and boulders in the total land area.

3. The soil depth is measured by digging at random a minimum of 12 pits per ha
to a depth of 1 m (Figure 1).
Figure 1. Vertical cross section of a soil pit

4. The gravel content is measured by passing soil through a 2 mm mesh, or
visually.

The Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka,
Talawakelle.

Copyright — The Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka © 2002

COPYRIGHT

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or
information storage and retrieval, without permission in writing from the Director, The
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka.

 
