T.R.I. ADVISORY CIRCULAR _No.SP EJ

 

Issued in: May 2009 Serial No. 02/09

ANALYSIS OF FERTILIZER SAMPLES
(This Circular cancels Advisory Circular No. F6, Serial No. 6/92, issued in August 1992)

1. Introduction
The Institute undertakes analysis of fertilizer samples to determine their nutrient contents for ensuring
quality. The values so obtained may differ from those expected of their chemical composition for
the following reasons:
1. Adulteration
2. Presence of excess moisture. Straight fertilizers or fertilizer mixtures which are hygroscopic or
contain hygroscopic components, could absorb moisture and become a slurry, if stored under
humid conditions
. Inadequate mixing of the components of a fertilizer mixture
. Segregation of particles of different sizes in the bag containing the mixture during transport and
storage
. Presence of impurities
. Incorrect sampling procedure
. Analytical errors. This is relatively smail

> &

NOOO

For the results of analysis to be meaningful, it is necessary that great care be taken when sampling
is carried out. It is only then the samples would be representative of the bulk of the fertilizer or
fertilizer-mixture sampled. Thus, it is important that the following procedure be strictly adhered to in
sampling.

2. Sampling
The number of fertilizer bags to be collected at random for sampling should be determined based
on the amount of fertilizer bags in a given store as per Table 1.

Table 1. Guide to determine the number of bags to be sampled

Stock of fertilizer Percentage of the minimum number Number of bags
of bags taken for sampling

Less than 2 bags 100 sample both bags
2-5 bags 60 2
6-10 bags 40 3
11-20 bags 20 3
21-60 bags § 2
61-200 bags 4 3
201-500 bags 3 8
501-1000 bags 2 13
1001 or more bags 1 20

 
The accepted procedure for obtaining a representative sample of fertilizer is described below.

3. Methods of sampling
3.1 Use of a shovel

The bags to be sampled should be selected at random and should be emptied separately on a clean
dry surface and blended using a shovel and one shovelful taken from each. The shovelfuls so
taken should be then thoroughly mixed and any lumps broken up. From this mixture, a sub sample
should be drawn by the process of quartering.

3.2 Use of a sampling probe

1. Use a sampling probe (details given below) to draw samples from fertilizer bags

2. Lay bags horizontally, open one end and pass the probe diagonally from one end to the other
and remove the core

3. From lots of ten bags, take one core from each bag

4. For lots of more than ten bags, select ten bags at random and then take one core from each
bag

5. When it is necessary to sample only lots of less than ten bags, take ten cores but at least one
core from each of the bags

6. For bulk fertilizer, draw at least ten cores from different points

7. From this, subsamples should be drawn by the process of quartering as described below

The sampling probe could be constructed by taking 0.9 m (3 feet) long 5 cm (2 inches) internal
diameter conduit piping or PVC tubing. Cut one end of the tubing obliquely to get a sharp
pointed edge (Figure 1).

5m >»)

oom

(a) = (b)

Figure 1. A diagramatic sketch of a sampling probe (a) and a shovel (b)

4. Subsampling by the process of quartering
~ Itis required to reduce the quantity of fertilizer to a manageable size prior to submission for analysis.
Therefore quartering should be adopted as explained below to subsample the collected fertilizer
(Figure 2).
a. Heap the fertilizer to form a ‘cone’ on a clean sheet of paper or polythene
b. Flatten the cone and divide into two sections through the centre with a metal spatula or wooden
plank
. Divide each half once more and separate the four quarters into four separate piles or quarters
. Reject one set of diagonally opposite quarters and mix the remainder
. Continue the quartering and rejection until the desired quantity of sub sample is obtained
Collect the final remainder as representative sub sample

™~o aod

One kilogram of sub sample is quite sufficient, of which only one-third need be sent for nutrient
analysis, one-third should be sent to the supplier and the balance must be retained by the customer.

2
 

Figure 2. Subsampling by quartering

5. Labelling
The samples should be carefully and correctly labelled giving the name of the estate, type of
fertilizer and the date on which the samples was taken. It must be ensured that the label does not
come into contact with the fertilizer sample. This precaution is taken to avoid the labels becoming
illegible at the time of arrival at the TRI laboratories or its centres.

6. Sample despatch
The samples should be sent directly to the Head, Soils and Plant Nutrition Division, Tea Research
Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle or to the regional laboratories located at following addresses
depending on convenience for transport.
* Soils and Plant Nutrition Laboratory, Walahanduwa, Galle
* Soils and Plant Nutrition Laboratory, Research, Advisory and Extension Centre, PO Box, 130,
Hantana, Kandy

It is necessary that the total cost of analysis should be paid prior to commencing analysis. Payments
could be made through cheques, postal or money orders drawn in favour of “Tea Research Institute
of Sri Lanka” and forward to the Head, Soils and Plant Nutrition Division, Tea Research Institute of
Sri Lanka, Talawakelle or to the regional laboratories at Hantana, Kandy and Walahanduwa, Galle.
Money could also be paid at the cash counter of the Tea Research Institute or its centres at the time
of submission of samples for analysis.

The analysis is being done on the strict understanding that neither the Tea Research Board nor the
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka will be involved in any litigation, nor will any officers employed
by the above Board or any of its Divisions or its centres be required to answer summons to witness
in any legal action or dispute arising from the results of this or any other analysis of these or similar
samples.

COPYRIGHT
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any

means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or information storage and retrieval,
without permission in writing from the Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka.

 
