ADVISORY CIRCULAR _No.HP EJ

 

Issued in: March 2003 Serial No. 04/03

Guidelines on Plucking

Introduction

Picking of young tea shoots having two to three leaves and soft dormant shoots (banjhi) is
known as plucking. Plucking is the most labour intensive field operation in tea plantations.
Hence, the profitability of tea plantations depends to a large extent on the harvesting
policies. Well-balanced plucking policy enhances the yield and optimises the labour use
without affecting the quality of made tea.

Shoot growth and shoot generations

The production and storing of food materials take place in all growing shoots and growth of
a bush depends on such food materials. Plucking removes a greater part of shoots that are
in the process of production. The degree of removal of growing shoots can affect the
growth and yield of a tea bush. In order to optimise the shoot growth, it is very essential to
understand the functions or the importance of different growing stages of a tea shoot.

Bud

Normal
Leaves

        

Fish Leaf —->

Scale Leaves denam Lent

\ Mother Leaf

Tea Shoot
Growth of shoots

e After plucking, shoot growth starts from the axillary buds just below the point of
plucking. There is a potential for a number of axillary buds to commence growth
after apical growth is interrupted by plucking. But the first axillary bud immediately
below the plucking point usually grows first.

e Initially, two small appendages known as scale leaves, which cover the bud, open
out. They generally fall off few days after opening. Then another one or two,
medium sized, unserrated, blunt leaves are unfolded above these scale leaves. The
smaller one immediately above the scale leaves is termed janam leaf and the other
one is called the fish leaf.

e Then the bud starts to produce normal leaves which are commonly included in the
harvest.

e After unfurling 4-5 leaves, the terminal bud becomes inactive, and passes through a
dormant (resting) period known as banjhi or wangi.

e The growth pattem having alternate active and dormant growing phases is termed
as periodicity of growth.

¢ Initiation of the axillary bud growth is rather slow. It enters into a fast growing period
after unfurling the janam/fish leaf. This is generally known as linear phase of
growth.

¢ Shoot weight, approximately, doubles at the opening of each extra leaf, on a shoot
reaching the harvestable size, i.e. with 2-3 flush leaves.

Shoot generations

There are number of shoots of different growth stages in a tea bush. i.e. growing buds, bud
and scale leaves, bud and fish leaf, etc., A group of shoots of the same growth stage or age
is called a generation. The generations are formed as a result of variation in shoot growth
and frequent harvesting. Continuous plucking is possible as there are large number of
shoots belonging to different generations in a tea bush. The number of generations usually
increases with shortening of the plucking round. Increase in shoot generations helps to
increase the shoot population density, which is the major yield component

Growing buds and immature shoots (animbus) on a plucking table are considered major
sites for storing carbohydrates (sink) produced by mature leaves (source). Hence, it is
essential to ensure that the immature shoots are left on the bush after plucking.
Leaf standard (Plucking standard)
This refers to the composition of standard flush/eaf of the harvested crop.
Standard (acceptable) flush/eaf means;

Shoots with two tender leaves & bud

Immature dormant shoots

Shoots with three tender leaves & bud

Immature shoots and coarse leaf are unacceptable.

 

Percentage of standard flush Leaf Standard

More than 75% Fine Plucking
60- 75% Medium Plucking

Less than 60 % Coarse Plucking

        
    
        

Plucking coarse leaves will lead to drop in the quality of made tea.

Plucking style (Severity of plucking)

This refers to the point at which a shoot is plucked. The appropriate plucking style should
be selected depending on the prevailing weather pattem, bush vigour and labour
availability.

A well-planned plucking policy with a combination of light and hard plucking during different
seasons, by maintaining a good canopy depth, should be carried out.

 

 

 

 

Plucking style + Point of Plucking Type of leaves left on the
Severity of plucking) bush

Light Plucking or Single leaf Just above the first mature | One mature leaf, fish leaf &
plucking or Mother leaf plucking | leaf scale leaves.

Os Plucking or Fish leaf Just above the fish leaf. Fish leaf & scale leaves.
plucking |

 

 
Plucking round/Frequency of plucking

Plucking round is the number of days between successive plucking.

An ideal plucking round is the number of days taken between successive openings of
leaves on a shoot. This period is called leaf period or phyllochron.

The rate of shoot growth depends on factors such as weather & type of clone.
Plucking rounds become shorter during wet weather while it is extended during dry
weather. Therefore, the plucking rounds should also be determined accordingly.
Maintaining a proper plucking round that matches the rate of shoot growth helps to
increase the yield and to minimize a drop in the quality of made tea.

Haphazard extended plucking rounds may not only lower the made tea quality, but
also reduce the yield.

Plucking rounds and the plucking standards are independent factors.

Extended rounds may influence the plucking standards due to high percentage of
over-mature shoots.

Plucking and vigour of the bush

The tea leaf attains the highest photosynthetic activity when they reach half their
final size. It remains at the maximum for about 6 month from full expansion.
Usually the life span of a tea leaf is about 18 months.

This shows that the older leaves do not contribute to the production because production
decreases with ageing of leaves. Therefore, addition of new foliage on the canopy by
plucking to a mother leaf for about 6 months per year is required.

Continuous mother leaf plucking leads to the unnecessary rise in the plucking table.
Maintenance of a thick canopy (more than 25 cm) is not required, as leaves at the
bottom layers of the canopy do not receive sufficient sunlight for photosynthesis.
Depth of maintenance foliage is less in young tea and in pruned tea. Hence,
adoption of mother leaf plucking is necessary to build up adequate leaf canopy.

Fish leaf plucking could be done during the cropping months, while resorting to
mother leaf plucking during the balance periods is recommended.

.Hard plucking will give a higher yield initially, but continuous hard plucking will result

in debilitation of the bush and an increase in the formation of mudichchies (crow's
feet condition).

Continuous hard plucking or light plucking systems will bring about low productivity of
the bush. It is therefore, important to adopt a mixture of two plucking systems
depending on the prevailing weather condition in the area, the age from pruning and
bringing into bearing practices.

Mechanical harvesting

Mechanical harvesting should be sought if the hand plucking is impractical due to the
scarcity of labour. Under such conditions TRI Selective Tea Harvester could be used.
Other important aspects of plucking

1)

2)
3)
4)

5)

10)

Plucking table should be even and it should follow the slope of the land. This should
be initiated from the time of pruning/tipping and continued with the bush creep.
Removal of banji and crow’s-feet should be a routine practice.

Immature shoots (arimbus) must be left unplucked to be taken at the next round as
heavier units.

Coarse leaves and stalks should be removed in the field to maintain a better leaf
standard and a plucking table.

Shoots on side branches and hollows on the plucking table should be left unplucked
until they cover the open spaces.

Pluckers should be instructed not to ram the flush into their baskets.

Pluckers should be instructed not to retain an excessive number of plucked
shoots in their hands.

Plucking on the rested bushes and on the ‘lungs’ of pruned bushes should be
avoided.

Possible damages to plucked shoots at the point of weighing, bulking and
transporting should be minimized.

Education of pluckers and careful supervision on plucking will ensure the quality of
made tea

The Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka
Talawakelle

Copy right - The Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka @ 2003

COPY RIGHT

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or
information storage and retrieval, without permission in writing from the Director, Tea
Research Institute of Sri Lanka.

 
