 

  

  
   

Issued in: September 2001 Serial No. 4/01

GREEN MANURE CROPS IN TEA

(This replaces the existing Circular No. 0-3, Serial No. 7/90.)

1.

Objective

Considerable quantities of green manure can be obtained from well-managed medium shade
trees and green'manure crops that are interplanted with tea. Their loppings provide organic
matter in large ‘quantities. The organic matter from loppings improves the soil physical
properties and also provides nitrogen and other mineral nutrients. Lopping should be carried
out at the proper time. The frequency of lopping will depend on the speciés and the agro-
ecological zone in which they are grown.

2.1

2.2

2.3

2.4

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

Loppings of Shade Trees

Medium shade trees such as Erythrina lithosperma (dadaps) and Gliricidia sepium
have a dual purpose in that they afford physical shade to tea and serve as green
manure crops. These trees should be lopped with the onset of rain. Gliricidia could
be lopped 2 — 3 times a year depending on the growth and weather conditions, and
dadap 1- 2 times a year.

Species of Acacia that thrive well in elevations above 1370 m (4500 ft) do not stand
up to hard lopping. They should, therefore, be lopped lightly with the
commencement of rain.

Calliandra grows well up to an elevation of 1500 m (5000 ft) and it could be lopped
1-2 times a year, well before pod set.

Loppings of shade trees should be chopped and spread evenly between tea rows
and not heaped up in several places.

Green Manure

Bush varieties like Crotolaria anagyroides or Crotolaria usaromoensis could be
grown as green manure crops between every four rows of tea in new clearings.
These plants grow fast and attain a height of 1.5 m ( 5 ft) in 3-4 months. They
should be lopped at the time of flowering before pod formation, and the loppings
spread evenly between tea rows. About 2-3 loppings could be done in a year.

As Crotolaria competes with tea for moisture during dry periods, it should be lopped
immediately before the onset of drought.

Sesbania sesban is also recommended as a green manure crop for all elevations.
This particular species is not a threat to tea as far as tea nematodes are concerned.

Apart from protecting the young tea plants from wind damage, the above green
manure species also conserve soil and provide nutrients from their loppings.

ADVISORY CIRCULAR No.si EE
The Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka
Talawakele

Copyright — The Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka © 2001

Copyright
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or
by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or information

storage and retrieval system without permission in writing from the Director, The Tea
Research Institute of Sri Lanka.
