ADVISORY CIRCULAR _No.PN IE

 

Issued in: November 2009 Serial No. 06/09
Tea NurseRY MANAGEMENT

1. Introduction

Nursery management is an most important operation for successful tea cultivation in the field. The
success of tea plantation depends largely on the vigour and the quality of nursery plants used. The
primary objective of nursery management is to raise healthy, vigorous and uniform plants from suitable
cultivars with minimum casualties over an appropriate period of time at a minimum cost. A plant raised
in the nursery of about 30 cm height comprising approximately 15 leaves with 2 - 3 side shoots, anda
well developed root system is considered as suitable for planting. Good Nursery Practices (GNP) including
advance planning, correct and timely implementation of nursery operations are essential to produce
healthy and uniform plants in a nursery as described below.

2. Schedule of operations
Nursery activities for different tea growing regions are shown in Table 1.

Table 1. Nursery activity schedule for different planting regions/ monsoon sectors

Activity Up country/ Uva/ Low country/
South-west North-west South-west

Pruning mother bushes (4 - 6 months prior to planting) Nov - Dec May - Jul Apr - May

Soil collection, preparation, fumigation and bagging Feb - Mar Jul - Aug dul - Aug

Planting of cuttings May - Jun Nov-Dec Aug - Sep
Supplying casualties (2 weekly intervals) Jun - Aug Dec - Jan Sep - Oct
Fertilizer application (2 weekly intervals) Aug - Sep Jan - Feb Oct - Nov
Disbudding (4 - 5 leaf stage) Aug - Sep Feb-Mar Nov - Dec
Thumb nailing (7 - 8 leaf stage) Sep - Oct Mar - Apr Dec - Jan
Restacking (4 - 5 month stage) Oct - Nov Apr-May Dec - Jan
Hardening (5 - 7 month stage) Dec - Jan May-Jun = Mar - Apr

Field planting Up country & Uva: in 10 - 12 months May - Jun Oct-Nov = Apr - Jun
Low country: in 8 - 9 months

3. Selection of site
~“Anursery site must be centrally located to facilitate easy and constant supervision. The size of the site

depends on the annual requirement of plants and the lie and slope of the land. Factors to be considered.
in the selection of a site are;
¢ Proximity to a source of water
* Good drainage
* Protection from wind
* Proximity to the source of soil
* Proximity to the source of planting material
* Absence of over hanging branches of trees

4. Preparation of beds
The ideal size of a bed should be about 1.0 m wide (3.5 ft) and could be of any convenient length of
about 20 m (65 ft), with a pathway of 60 cm (2 ft) on either side for carrying out nursery operations, Beds
are built in a north-south direction to receive sunlight throughout the day. The beds should be raised to

1
about 15 cm (6 inches) for helping drainage and to avoid contamination of bags with nematodes
subsequently through running water and, to avoid possible operational damages to the plants.

Selection of soil

The growth of nursery plants largely depends on the texture (the proportion of sand, silt and clay) of the
soil. Loamy soils containing sufficient fine particles (clay and silt) to hold up water together with sand to
facilitate excess water to drain out are suitable for nurseries. The pH of the soil should be within a range
of 4.5 and 5.5, preferably around 5 for successful rooting and growth. The soils chosen for bagging
should be sieved using a No. 4 mesh to remove stones, pebbles and large root particles. The sources
of soit suitable for nurseries are as follows.

5.1 Grass soil
Asoil where Guatemala or Mana grass has been grown for a period of year or two with a substantial
amount of un-decomposed roots that make the soil friable with good drainage and adequate aeration.

5.2 Patana soil
Soil collected from patna lands where grasses, ferns and shrubs have grown naturally.

5.3 Jungle soil
Soil with suitable texture from natural jungles, Eucalyptus or Pinus plantations/blocks can be used.
The surface organic matter (decaying leaves and.twigs) should be removed prior to use.

5.4 Sub soil
This is obtained from a depth beyond 30 cm from the soil surface. After sieving (with No. 4 mesh),
its texture should be improved by adding fine sand proportionately (one part of fine sand with four
to six parts of soil depending on clayiness of the soil).

. Soil treatment

Soil should not be collected for nursery when it is too wet or dry in order to preserve the desired
structure. Soil collected should be heaped in an enclosed area and protected from rain by thatching/
covering until it is used.

Soils collected from all tea growing areas should be fumigated before use to eradicate nematode pests
in soil. Please refer Advisory Circular No PM 11 for current recommendations of the fumigants, dosages
and application methods.

As an alternative to soil fumigation, soil solarization is also possible in areas where at least five hours
of sunshine per day is available for a minimum period of six consecutive weeks. As solarization is
subjective to local conditions it is necessary to obtain advice on soil solarization methods from the TRI
by submitting weather records such as the number of rainy days and daily sunshine hours for the last
three years.

. Alternate soil media

When soil is scarce, organic materials such as tea waste, paddy husk and coir dust may be used along
with soil. These alternate media will also help improve the quality and vigour of nursery plants. Other
comparative benefits include reduction of soil requirement, labour use and cost and easy transportation
due to the light weight of such materials.
7.1 Organic materials

Organic materials with the following requirements should be selected depending on their accessibility
and availability.

Organic material Specifications and requirements
Refuse tea Well decomposed under natural conditions
Paddy husk Fresh or partially decomposed; wastes obtained preferably from
Japanese huller and free of bran and grain pieces
Coir dust Fresh or decomposed; not from coastal areas
7.2 Methods of use

Different alternate media could be used either.in layer arrangement or as mixtures. The soil used
for layers and/or mixtures should be fumigated as specified in the Advisory Circular No. PM 11.
The organic material and soil should be lightly watered and mixed thoroughly prior to making the
mixture.

7.2.1 Layer arrangement
The top one-third (1/3) of the nursery bag should be filled with soil to facilitate early rooting
with minimum causalities. The bottom two-third (2/3) should be filled with a mixture of organic
material and soil in the ratios given below which will help establish roots and growth.

Organic material Ratio of organic material : soil Remarks

Refuse tea 1:1 100% refuse tea could also be used

Paddy husk 1:40r1:2 1: 2 for areas where prolonged dry
weather is expected

Coir dust 1:1 100% coir dust could also be used

7.2.2 Mixture arrangement

The whole nursery bag should be filled with 1 : 1 refuse tea: soil or 1 : 1 paddy husk: soil or
1: 1 coir dust: soil mixtures.

7.3 Special considerations
Special attention should be paid to give optimum water requirement when using the above growing
media. As paddy husk retains less water, frequent watering may be required whereas refuse tea
requires less water as it retains more water.

. Filling the polythene sleeves

Guage of the polythene should be 150. Standard size of a sleeve is 10 cm or 4 inches in diameter (12.7
cm or 5 inches layflat) and 23 cm or 9 inches long and, about 400 such sleeves can be made from 1 kg
of polythene sleeve of 150 gauge. The bottom end of the bag is left open, and a few holes punched on
the sides of the bottom half to facilitate drainage. About one cube of soil is required to fill about 1000
sleeves.

Bigger polythene sleevs of 30 cm or 12 inches long and 15 cm or 6 inches wide (layflat) are used to
raise bigger plants for infilling purposex as they are kept longer duration (15 - 18 months) in the
nursery.

 
When filling the sleeves, a small layer of lightly wet soil is gently rammed at the bottom to make it hold
on to the sleeve. Then fill by gently pressing the soil in but not ramming it hard, to avoid formation of a
hard layer that may impede root development. No air pockets shouid be left in the soil while filling as it
could result in sagging of the bag.

. Source of planting material
Vegetatively propagated plants are raised from internodai cuttings consisting of one leaf of the shoot.
The choice of cultivars, both for replanting and infilling, will depend on the desired characters. Please
tefer TRI Advisory Circular PN 1 for details on selecting suitable cultivars. Cuttings should be obtained
from properly managed multiplication plots (mother bushes) as described below.

9.1 Preparation of mother bushes and planting of cuttings
It is recommended to remove the terminal buds, about 2 - 3 weeks before taking shoots off the
mother bushes and then followed by a foliar application of Zinc Sulphate and Urea at 2 - 3% each
in order to break dormancy of axillary buds and stimulate growth. Please refer TRI Advisory Circular
No. SP 4 for details on fertilizing mother bushes.

9.2 Collection of shoots
Shoots must be obtained from pruned bushes over four years in age. Vigorously grown erect shoots
will be available for collection about four months after pruning in the low country and six months
after pruning in the up country. However, this period may vary with weather conditions, elevation
and cultivar. Generally 3 - 5 suitable cuttings per shoot (depending on the quality of shoot) and 15
- 25 shoots could be obtained from a well maintained mother bush. Approximately 70 - 100 cuttings
could be obtained from a bush. Shoots should be collected early in the day.

  
 

rejected apical
tender portion

 

semi hard wood middie portion
suitable for taking cuttings

 

A suitable shoot rejected basal
mature portion

Figure 1: Selection of suitable portions for taking single node cuttings

4
9.3 Transportation of shoots
Once shoots are removed from mother bushes they should be kept in a shaded place preferably in
a container filled with water to avoid drying up. Adequate measures should therefore be taken to
minimize drying up and sun scorch of shoots during transportation.

9.4 Method of taking cuttings
Only single node cuttings from a suitable shoot (Figure 2) are recommended. Cuttings should be
taken from the middle portion (Figure 1) of the shoot leaving the apical tender portion and the basal
mature portion (Figure 1). Cuttings with axilliary flower buds, overgrown shoots and damaged mother
leaf (Figure 3) should be discarded. When obtaining single node cuttings, the upper cut should

cut sloping upwards just
above the axillary bud

 

cut sloping downwards —~____,

Figure 2. A suitable single node cutting

3

damaged mature leaf overgrown axillary bud flower bud
stem too short stem too long excess stem ahead the leaf

Figure 3. Unsuitable cuttings

 
always be made in the shoot closer to the axilliary bud without damaging it (Figure 2). The second
cut should be made 2.5 - 3.8 cm below the node, in an upward slope by rotating the shoot between
fingers. The cuttings should be dropped into a water container immediately after the cut and planted
soon as possible without leaving them to dry out.

9.5 Planting of cuttings
Soil in the polythene bags should be lightly watered and gently pressed prior to inserting cuttings.
Only one cutting should be planted per bag by inserting vertically down into the soil. Planting of
cuttings should be done in the manner the leaves are oriented in one direction at an angie to the
row. The soil around the cutting should be gently pressed by fingers to ensure firm anchorage.
Cuttings of different cultivars should be planted separately and labeled.

9.6 Promotion of rooting of cuttings
In order to enhance callusing and rooting of cuttings particularly in the case of slow rooting cultivars,
the basal ends of the cuttings may be treated with a quick dip of a growth hormone by immersing
the cuttings up to 1.5 cm in Indol Butric acid (IBA) solution of 6000 ppm (6g IBA/L of water).

9.7 Propagation under sealed polythene
Propagation could be done under a sealed polythene tunnel to have considerable savings on water
and labour. After cuttings are planted, the bags as well as beds are given a through watering and
covered immediately with a transparent, 300 gauge polythene sheet, resting on semi-circular iron
or bamboo hoops. The edges of the sheet are buried well on all four sides and made air-tight to
create a propagating environment.

No watering is required in the tent as the water applied initially would be adequate for internal
circulation within the tent. If the moisture in the tent is inadequate, the plants should be watered and
sealed again. When the water is condensed inside the tent, they should be placed back in the
potted bags by gently tapping the surface of the tent at frequent intervals especially in the mornings.

The cover could be retained for 1‘/, - 3 months, depending on the rate of growth, and removed in
stages extending over a few days. This system brings about a relatively fast vegetative growth of
the cuttings, especially in slow-growing cultivars as well as in nurseries in exposed or cold areas.

10. Shade for nurseries
Cuttings should not be exposed to direct sunlight and diffused or indirect sunlight of about 20 - 25%
light is adequate. The different types of nursery shade are described below.

10.1Low shade with bracken fern
Bracken fern (Gleichenia linearis) can be inserted in clusters of about 2 - 3 fern shoots between
polythene sleeves. The fern stalk should be free from leaves up to 25 cm from bottom and shade
should be provided by the fern canopy above this height. Uneven shading and difficulty in supervision
are drawbacks of this type of shade.

10.2Low shade with coir matting
Coir matting of 6mm mesh, with a standard size of 9 m x 3 m (30" x 9") is laid on a frame of iron
or bamboo hoops, fixed across the length of the bed at 2 m apart. Rods, 2 m long with loops at the
end, are used to link the hoops together and provide additional support.
10.3High shade with coir matting
Though the initial cost is high, this type of shade is preferred as it allows easy walking in and
carrying out nursery operations under the permanent structure. The frame (wood, galvanized
piping or concrete posts) is erected slightly sloping to receive more of the morning sunlight, and
also to prevent excessive drip during heavy rains. Posts are 2.4 m high, spaced 3.6 m x 3.5 m
apart, and the frame stands 2 m above the bed after erecting. Coir matting of 6mm mesh should
be used as shade material. Alternatively synthetic nettings could be used in high elevation estates.

11. Aftercare operations
11.1 Watering
In the early stages, regular watering two to three times a day is necessary and watering should be
regulated depending on the weather. Wetting the coir matting will help retention of moisture in the
nursery.

11.2 Fertilizer applications
Fertilizer should be applied only after the cuttings have been rooted, which would be between six
to eight weeks in the Low country and ten to twelve weeks in the Up country. Please refer
Advisory Circular No. SP 1 for details of fertilizer application.

11.3 Restacking plants
For easy management of the nursery and to obtain piants uniform in size, the plants should be
separated by restacking them into two to three height classes during the fourth to fifth month. A
second restacking could be done during the fifth to seventh month. While restacking, the moss
and hard crust formed in the surface soil of the nursery bags should be loosened by gently dibbling
in with a pointed stick to permit better percolation of water and fertilizer. This leaves the soil in a
friable condition.

11.4 Hardening of plants
As more leaves are formed, plants need exposure to more sunlight for better growth. This must
be done gradually as sudden exposure may lead to leaf scorch. Between the fourth and sixth
month (based on the elevation), the side of the coir matting should be raised and the plants
should be exposed to indirect sun until the shade is completely removed.

11.5 Encouraging early spread
For maximum gain, plants should be encouraged to form a low spread at an early stage. The

following operations would encourage formation of lateral branches from the lower level of the
main stem.

Disbudding: To induce effective lateral branching, the terminal bud should be removed at four
to five leaf stage. This should be repeated on the axillary shoots also as they grow.

Thumb-nailing: At about seventh to eighth leaf stage, after the root system is well developed,
the terminal bud and the two leaves immediately below should be pinched off to induce growth of
lateral branches.

11.6 Pest and disease control
Common pests found in nurseries are the tea tortrix and the yellow mite. When the nursery period
is extended, shot hole borer can become a problem in susceptible cultivars. Mealy bugs may

7

 
become problematic under ifl-drained and clayey soil conditions. Blister blight and black blight
disease (in the Low country) on young leaves during monsoon condition also can be a probiem.
Please refer TRI PM and DM series of Advisory Circulars for current recommendations on control
of insect and mite pests and, leaf diseases in nurseries.

With proper timing of operations along with good management practices, nursery tea plants with
appropriate quality standards can be produced within a period of 10 - 12 months in Up country
and Uva regions, and 8 - 9 months in Low country regions.

COPYRIGHT
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or information storage and retrieval,
without permission in writing from the Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka.
