PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
TEA RESEARCH BOARD (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 8 OF 2019
Printed on the Order of Government[Certified on 18th of June, 2019]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU , COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 21, 2019
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lkTea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 20191
[Certified on 18th of June, 2019]
L.D.—O. 22/2014
AN ACT TO AMEND THE TEA RESEARCH BOARD
ACT, NO. 52 OF 1993
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1.This Act may be cited as the Tea Research Board
(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2019.
2.Section 5 of the Tea Research Board Act, No. 52 of
1993 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”)
is hereby amended by the substitution for paragraph ( a), of
the following paragraph:–
“(a) to conduct, assist and encourage scientific and
technological research in, and investigations of,all matters pertaining to the production and
manufacture of tea, including the prevention and
control of diseases and pests affecting tea,conservation of soil in tea lands, quality of fertilizer
used, maintaining the quality of tea planting
material, assessing and dealing with the impact ofclimate change and diversification of tea products;
and to disseminate and publish at its discretion, the
results of such research to the Tea Small HoldingsDevelopment Authority established by the Tea
Small Holdings Development Law, No.35 of 1975,
to tea small holders, large scale estate sector and to
other stakeholders;”.Short title.
Amendment of
section 5 of theAct, No. 52 of1993.2 Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 2019
3.Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph ( j)
thereof, of the following new paragraph:-
“(k) (i) to prevent the import of any tea planting
material except under the authority of
a Plant Importation Permit issued to theDirector of the Tea Research Institute
by the Director General of the
Department of Agriculture under thePlant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
and in the case of export, to issue a
phytosanitary certificate on the requestof the country of import;
(ii)For the purpose of this paragraph “ tea
planting material” includes any kind
of planting material that may be
capable of being used directly aspropagules including cuttings, shoots,
scions, stumps, seeds, in vitro cultures
(micro propagules) or any kind of plantmaterial that can be regenerated to
produce plants indirectly, including
any form of somatic or reproductivetissue, organ and also germplasm,
improved variety, cultivar, wild form
of tea from any living portion of anytea plant capable of being used for
propagation;”; and
(2) by renumbering paragraphs ( k), (l), (m), (n) and ( o)
as paragraphs ( l), (m), (n), (o) and ( p) of that section.Amendment of
section 6 of theprincipalenactment.Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 20193
4.Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph ( b) of subsection (1) of
that section and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“(b) the following nominated members appointed by
the Minister, namely –
(i) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of
Plantation Industries, nominated by that
Minister;
(ii) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance not below the rank of a Senior
Assistant Secretary, nominated by that
Minister;
(iii) a representative of the Sri Lanka Tea
Board established by the Sri Lanka TeaBoard Law, No.14 of 1975, nominated
by such Board;
(iv) a representative of the Tea Small
Holdings Development Authority
established by the Tea Small HoldingsDevelopment Law, No. 35 of 1975,
nominated by such Authority;
(v) two members nominated by the Minister
in charge of the subject of Plantation
Industries from amongst persons havingsufficient knowledge and experience in
research and development in the
Agricultural Sector;Amendment of
section 7 of theprincipalenactment.4 Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 2019
(vi) a representative of the Planters'
Association of Ceylon established by
the Planters' Association of CeylonOrdinance (Chapter 291), nominated by
such Association;
(vii) two members representing the Trade
Unions, who shall be selected on such
criteria as may be determined by theMinister in charge of the subject of
Plantation Industries;
For the purpose of this sub-paragraph
“Trade Unions” shall have the same
meaning as in the Trade UnionsOrdinance (Chapter 138);
(viii) a representative of the Sri Lanka
Federation of Tea Small Holdings
Development Societies established
under the Tea Small HoldingsDevelopment Law, No. 35 of 1975,
nominated by that Federation; and
(ix) a representative of the Sri Lanka Tea
Factory Owners’ Association, nominated
by that Association.”.
5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in caseof inconsistency.Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 20195
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA ”, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING , NO. 118, D R. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA , COLOMBO 8.