Tea And Rubber Subsidy (Amendment)
AN ACT TO AMEND THE RUBBER REPLANTING SUBSIDY ACT (CHAPTER 437) AND THE TEA SUBSIDY ACT, NO. 12 OF 1958.

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows :

Short title.

1.This Act may be cited as the Tea and Rubber Subsidy (Amendment) Act, No. 4 of 1970.

Amendment of the long title of Chapter 437.

2. The long title of the Rubber Replanting Subsidy Act, hereinafter referred to as the ” principal Act “, is hereby amended by the substitution, for the words ” REPLANTING OF RUBBER PLANTS “, of the words ” REPLANTING OF RUBBER ESTATES AND RUBBER SMALL HOLDINGS, THE REHABILITATION OF RUBBER ESTATES AND RUBBER SMALL HOLDINGS AND THE PROCESSING OF RAW RUBBER “.

Amendment of section 2 of the principal Act.

3. Section 2 of the principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution, for the words” replanting of rubber plants “, of the words ” replanting of rubber estates and rubber small holdings, the rehabilitation of rubber estates and rubber small holdings and the processing of raw rubber “.

Amendment of section 3 of the principal Act.

4. Section 3 of the principal Act is hereby amended in sub-section (2) thereof as follows:

(1) in paragraph (a) of that sub-section, by the substitution, for the words 6l replanting of rubber plants;”, of the words ss replanting of rubber estates and rubber small holdings, the rehabilitation of rubber estates and rubber small holdings and the processing of raw rubber;”; and


(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (aa) (inserted by Act No. 66 of 1961), of the following new paragraph:

“(aaa) such amounts as may be authorized from time to time by the Minister to be paid for the purpose of subsidizing the replanting of rubber estates and rubber small holdings with approved crops;”.



Amendment of section 8 of the principal Act.

5. Section 8 of the principal Act is hereby amended in sub-section (2) of that section, by the substitution, in paragraph (a) thereof, for the words ” replanting of rubber plants;”, of the words “replanting of rubber estates and rubber small holdings, the rehabilitation of rubber estates and rubber small holdings and the processing of raw rubber;”.

Amendment of section 13 of the principal Act.

6. Section 13 of the principal Act is hereby amended as follows:-

(1) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of ” appointed date “, of the following new definition:


‘” approved crops ” means such crops as may be approved for the purposes of this Act by the Minister by notification published in the Gazette;’;


(2) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of ” regulation “, of the following new definition:


‘ ” rehabilitation ” when used with reference to a rubber estate or rubber small holding means any operation designed to improve the agricultural conditions of such estate or small holding and includes the application of fertilizers, the adoption of improved agricultural practices and the planting of additional rubber plants and any other useful plants in such estate or small holding;’;


(3) by the substitution, for the definition of ” replanting “, of the following new definition:


‘ ” replanting ” when used with reference to any rubber estate or rubber small holding means the uprooting of all existing rubber plants and other vegetation in the whole or any part of such estate or small holding and their replacement with new rubber plants or with approved crops and includes the planting of rubber plants or approved crops in an area which does not form part of such estate or small holding if the rubber plants in an equivalent area of such estate or small holding are eradicated within such time as the Rubber Controller may specify;’;


(4) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of ” Rubber Controller “, of the following new definition:


‘ ” rubber estate ” means any rubber estate registered or deemed to have been registered under the Rubber Control Act;’; and


(5) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of ” rubber plant “, of the following new definition:


‘ ” rubber small holding ” means any rubber small holding registered or deemed to have been registered under the Rubber Control Act.’.


Amendment of Act No. 12 of 1958.

7. The Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958, (as mended by Act No. 66 of 1961) is hereby amended , follows:-

(1) in sub-section (2) of section 3 of that Act, by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) thereof, of the following new paragraph:

‘ (aa) such amounts as are authorized from time to time by the Minister to be paid for the purpose of subsidizing the replanting of tea estates and tea small holdings with approved crops;’; and



(2) in section 12 of that Act

(a) by the insertion, immediately before the definition of ” Board “, of the following new definition: ‘”approved crops ” means such crops as may be approved for the purposes of this Act by the Minister by notification published in the Gazetted) and


(b) by the substitution, for the definition of ” replanting “, of the following new definition:


‘ ” replanting ”

(a) when used with reference to any tea estate or tea small holding, means the uprooting of all existing tea plants and other vegetation in the whole or any part of such estate or small holding and their replacement with new tea plants or with approved crops and includes the replanting of tea plants or approved crops in an area which does not form part of such estate or small holding if the tea plants in an equivalent area of such estate or small holding are eradicated within such time as the Tea Controller may specify; and


(b) when used with reference to any rubber estate or rubber small holding means the uprooting of all existing rubber plants and other vegetation in the whole or any part of such estate or small holding and their replacement with tea plants;’.




