Page 1 of 3 
 TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
Issued in: December 2018   Guideline No: 0 2/2018  
 
GUIDELINES ON THE USE OF CO -3 GRASS (HYBRID NAPIER) FOR SOIL 
REHABILITATION BEFORE REPLANTING OF TEA  
IN THE LOW COUNTRY  
 
Introduction  
Soil rehabilitation for a period o f 18-24 months  before replanting of old tea , is a must 
to improve soil  conditions , minimize weed,  pest and disease infestations  and reduce 
soil toxicity .  Most of the farmers are reluctant to grow rehabilitation grass es for such 
a long period  before tea cu ltivation since there is no income generat ed during this 
period. Furthermore, there is a scarcity of planting materials of recommended 
rehabilitation grass species such as Mana and Guatemala, particularly in the low 
country tea growing region. Therefore , it has become necessary  to identify alternative 
grass  species to reduce the length of soil rehabilitation period.  The Hybrid  Napier  
grass (Pennisetum purpureum x Pennisetum americanum ), Variety CO -3 with 
following beneficial characteristics has been proven to be a  suitable alternative to 
Mana and Guatemala . 
 
Characteristics of CO-3 Grass  
 This is one of the inter-specific  Hybrid Napier varie ties used for fodder 
production. The hybridization occur s naturally between two species such as  
Common Napier  (Pennisetu m purpureum ) and Pearl millet  (Pen nisetum 
americanum) . These  two species readily cross and that the resultant inter  
specific hybrids are more vigorous than the parent species and highly sterile. 
Therefore , it can be used as fo dder without danger of becomin g a weed . 
 
 It has a  well ecological adaptability to the low country climatic condition s and 
a high grow th rate. 
 
 It improves soil chemical, p hysical and biological properties.  
 
 It has more  leafy growth and  show s high coppicing ability. Hence, appreciable  
number of loppings could be obtained within a short period of time.  
 
 Hybrid Napier variety has a higher tillering ability than Mana  (Cymbopogon 
confertiflorus)  or Guatemala  (Tripsacum laxum)  grass species . 
 Page 2 of 3 
  It gives h igher shoot and root biomass production than Mana and Guatemala  
(Table 1 and 2). As a result,  it add s highe r quantity of organic matter into the 
sub soil  at the end of rehabilitation  period.   
 
 The weed management cost during  rehabilitation period could  also be reduced 
due to rapid growth habit  of the grass , covering the land within a very short 
period of time  
 
Table 1: Above ground dry matter production ( Metric tons per ha) 
Type of grass  After 12 months  After 18 months  
CO-3 30.3 - 43.4 38.1 - 63.6 
Guatemala  20.1 - 21.7 31.7 - 32.5 
Mana  14.3 - 20.3 19.5 - 26.2 
 
Table 2: Root dry matter production ( Metric tons per ha) 
Type of grass  After 12 months  
CO-3 7.9 - 11.7 
Guatemala  3.9 - 5.8 
Mana  1.6 - 5.0 
 
Climatic and s oil requirements  for CO-3 grass    
The CO-3 grass grows well in high rainfall are as (in excess of 1500 mm per year)  and 
under full sunlight. The o ptimum temperature range for its growth is 25 – 40oC. The 
CO-3 grass  is very susceptible to frost.  Hence, it is not suitable for tea growing 
regions at high elevation s especially above 1500  m amsl . Water logg ing and very 
acidic soil conditions are also not conducive for growth of CO -3 grass . 
 
Planting of CO -3 Grass  
 After uprooting old tea, prepare and  level the land for planting of grasses. 
Dolomite should be applied at the recommended rate t o improve soil pH to the 
desirable range  (Please refer TRI Advisory Circular No. SP 6 on Fertilizer 
Recommendations For Rehabilitation Grasses, I ssued in July 2000) . 
 
 Fresh cuttings with 3 -4 nodes  soon after removal  from the mother plants are 
recommended  for planting as s ufficient amount s of food and water reserve s 
should be present  for successful sprou ting of buds and initial growth.  
 
 The grass cuttings should be planted at  the beginning of rainy season at a spacing 
of 0.3  m x 0.6 m; Approximately  55,500 stem-cutting s are required  for one 
hectare . 
 Page 3 of 3 
  Cuttings should be pla nted in holes made with a pointed stick or ‘Alavangu’ at an 
angle of 45  degrees  from the ground leaving  at least 2 nodes above the ground  and 
the soil around the cutting should be compacted w ell without leaving any air 
pockets. 
 
Fertilizer  application  
The grass should be regularly fertilized  using  the fertilizer mixture U  625 (Please refer TRI 
Advisory Circular No. SP 6 on Fertilizer Recommendations For Rehabilitation Grasses, 
Issued in July 2 000) similar to  other rehabilitation grasses . The quantities and times of 
fertilizer application s are 160, 210, and 310 kg per ha at the time of sprouting new shoots, 
after the 1st lopping, and after the 2nd and 3rd lopping respectively.   
 
Management  practices 
It takes about 4 -8 weeks  to form a good ground cover.  The grass should be lopped at 
regular intervals and the loppings should be spread on the ground between the contour 
rows. The first lopping  can be done  at a height of 45  – 60 cm from ground about 3 
months  after planting  and the  subsequent loppings could be done around 75 - 90 cm 
above the ground. The l opping should be done before the grass flowers and 4 loppings 
per year  are possible . It needs to be protected from the animals as it is a fodder grass . 
At the  end of the one-year rehabilitation period, g rass should be cut at the ground 
level and the stem parts should be removed from the field to prevent re -growth . 
 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
Copyright  
All rights r eserved . No part of  this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or 
information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission from the 
Director, Tea Re search Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle.  
 
 