Page 1 of 3 
 
TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
Issued in: December  2019   Guideline No: 02 /2019  
 
GUIDELINES FOR USE OF MOTORIZED TEA PRUNING MACHINES  
 
Introduction  
With continuous harvesting of shoots over several years, the tea bush rises beyond the 
comfortable reach of pluckers ’ hand and it also tends to produce fewer  shoots , more 
dormant shoots ( banjies ) and more flower buds. Furthermore , a close canopy may 
accumulate  debili tated branches and dead woods.  Therefore, it becomes necessary to 
prune tea bushes at regular intervals for reducing the height , stimul ating  vegetative growth 
and maintain ing the health of te a bush. The  ultimate objective of pruning is the  effective 
utilization of the land area under tea.  Depending on the bush health (vigour), 
environmental conditions (elevation) and type of tea (seedling or VP) , the pruning cycle 
varies from  around 2 - 5 years .  
 
Tea bushes are best pruned manually as it paves the way for individual removal of 
branches. However, it requires a large number of skilled workers (40 -50 workers/ha). 
Further more , pruning needs to be completed  within a certain period of the year  i.e. within  
a few months of the rainy season  avoiding dry weather. With the scarcity of workers , there 
is a great tendency in the tea plantations to use motorized machines for pruning tea.    
 
Tea pruning  machines   
Tea pruning machines are usually brush (bush) cutters  carried on  shoulder s. They often  
have a 2 stroke engine and 1-1.3 m long guide tube with a drive shaft to which a 
pruning blade is mounted (see Figure  1). The blade rotates anti -clock -wise. A wide 
handle  fixed to the drive tube has engine controls such as the throttle.  The weight of the 
machine is generally 6 -8 kg. The output of the pruning machines varies from  150-250 
bushes  per hour  depending  on the size of the bush frame , conditions  of the field  and 
operator’s skill . The fuel consumption of pruning machines is about 0.75 -1 liter per 
hour.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Proper use of tea pruning 
machine     Figure 2. Correct area (shaded) of the 
blade to be used for cutting  
Page 2 of 3 
 Proper use of pruning machine s in the field   
 Workers should be properly trained for operating and day-to-day maintenance  of 
the machine  and educat ed on  safety aspects periodically as per manufacturer's 
instructions.   
 The require d quantity  of gasoline (petrol) and 2T oil mixture should be prepared 
daily for the two-stroke engine as per manufacturer’s recommendations . A freshly 
prepared and well-mixed (shacked)  fuel mixture should be used for filling the fuel 
tank.  
 Operators should use safety gears such as jungle boots and goggles.  
 Pruning machines should not be used for formative  pruning  (first proper pruning) 
of tea bushes as such tea bushes  do not have well -developed frame and root system.  
 It is essential to rest (withhold harvesting) tea fields for a minimum period of  6 
weeks  prior to  pruning.  
 Over grown weed cover in tea fields reduce s the output of pruning machine s and 
hence, should adequately  be cleaned before pruning.  
 As the blade rotates anti -clock -wise, it should be fixed to the gear head correctly so 
that the cutting edges of the blade face towards the rotating direction (see Figure 2  
& operator’s manual /instructions  for details).   
 The smoothness of the cut depends on the number of tips, sharpness and speed 
(rpm) of the blade. Therefore, blades with tungsten carbide tips (around  100) are 
ideal for tea pruning. Engine should be throttled adequately before the cut is made.  
 The cut should be preferably made by using one-third of the blade (circumference) 
from the front to the left ( see Figure 2 ). Blade with broken or blunt tips should not 
be used for  pruning.  
 Few branches near est to  the operator should be cut first at the recommended height 
and the balance should be removed  progressively (step wise)  at the same height by 
swinging the pruner (from the right to  left) while  moving  forward . 
 Branches should be cut by exerting a mild pressure  to the blade . The blade  should 
never  be dashed towards the frame of the tea bush  as it damage s the blade and the 
branches .  
 It is dangerous to try and remove branches/twigs or other matter  entangled with the 
blade if any, while the engine is running.   
 One or two healthy and peripheral branches  having 200 -300 leaves  on the left -side 
of the bush should  be left as lungs. 
 Branches should be removed so that the top surface of the bush frame fol lows the 
slope of the land.  
 Manual cleaning of the frames by removing knots, damaged, dead, diseased and 
pest attacked branches  is essential after the machine pruning to preserve the  bush  
health.  
 The remnant fuel if any should be removed from the tank and those in the 
carburetor should  also be burnt by running the engine for few minutes until it 
automatically stops at the end of the day.  Page 3 of 3 
  Blade and the engine including air cleaner filters need to b e cleaned before storing 
the machine.  
 It is preferable to apply some oil on the blade to prevent rusting when storing the 
machine for longer periods without use.  
 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
 
Copyright  
All rights re served . No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or 
by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or 
information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission from the 
Director, Tea Res earch Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle  
 
   
  
 