Page 1 of 2 
 TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
Issued In: December  2019  Guideline No: 03 /2019 
 
GUIDELINES FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF TEA TO FACILITATE 
MECHANIZATION OF FIELD OPERATIONS  
 
Introduction  
Tea is a labour -intensive plantation crop; hence, the labour requirement and cost are 
heavy. It has become necessary to introduce mechanization to tea plantations  since the tea 
sector is presently facing acute worker shortage .  
 
Mechanization in agriculture is the use of machine to accomplish a task or operation 
involved in agricultural production. Key objectives of mechanization are to increas e 
worker productivity, reduc e cost of production, improv e product quality, eas e manual 
operation s, complet e tasks timely  and chang e worker attitudes.  
 
Tea planting system facilitating mechanization of  field operation s 
Mechanization of field operations requires adequate space for worker and machine 
mobility , dense  canopy architecture  and absence of obstacles such as shade trees in the 
path of machine operation .  
 
The conventional  system of single -row planting at a spacing of 0.6 m x 1.2 m  (2 feet X 4 
feet) limits the use and efficiency of machines.  
 
The double hedge -row planting system commonly practiced in some other tea growing 
countries such as Japan  and China  pave s the way for mechanizing  most of the labour -
intensive field operation s such as  harvesting  successfully . Therefore, hedge -row planting 
system having a spacing of 0.6 m x 0.6  m x 1.5 m (2 feet X 2 feet X 5 feet: Figure 1) is 
considered amenable  to facilitate mechanization of post -planting tea field operations  in 
Sri Lanka .  
 
However, t he other special consideration s that require  greater attention are as follows;  
 As considerable space of land between two hedge -rows is exposed to rain thus soil 
erosion, this planting system is more suitable for  flat and undulating lands. 
Moreover , particular attention should be paid to cover such areas by mulching and 
planting of co ver crops  during early stages  of establishment to minimize soil 
losses and weed growth .  
 
 Due to high planting density  (theoretical density is 15,370 plants per hectare 
which is a bout 14% more than the theoretical plant density of conventional 
system: 13,450 plants per hectare ), competition for moisture during dry weather 
may lead to poor plant growth and drought casualties. Therefore, unfertile lands, Page 2 of 2 
 soils with poor moisture retention capacity and drought prone areas  are best 
avoided in hedge -row planting unless they are provided with irrigation facilities.  
Further more,  use of hardy tea cultivars with an erect -growth habit  recommended 
for the agro-climatic region s will minimize such disadvantages.   
 
 Rate of fertilizer application need s to be increased in par with number of plants 
per ha ( high plant density) . 
 
 Training of the hedge -row to form  a slightly curved plucking surface with the use 
of appropriate pruning machines will facilitate use of pruning/harvesting machines 
with dome -shaped blades.    
 
 
Figure 1. A schematic diagram of double hedge -row p lanting arrangement in the 
field  (0.6m x 0.6m  x 1.5m ) 
 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
Copyright  
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or 
by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or 
information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission from the Director, 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle  
