Page 1 of 2 
 TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
 
Issued in: July 2019   Guideline No: 01/2019  
 
GUIDELINES  ON ADAPTATION STRATEGIES TO MINIMIZE CLIMATE 
CHANGE IMPACTS ON TEA PROD UCTION  
 
Introduction  
Climate change or global warming, which is considered to be a result of 
anthropogenic emissions of Green House Gases (GHG) such as CO 2, CH 4, N 2O, O 3, 
CFCs to the atmosphere  is reportedly posing a threat to tea production. The t ea 
industry in Sri Lanka sustains livelihood of a significant portion of the population  in 
the country  and brings in much needed foreign exchange . Sustainability of the 
industry is vital not only because of its socio -economic importance, but to address 
environmental concerns as we ll. It is primarily because  majority of tea lands are on 
steep terrains and in watershed feeding areas to the  river system s of the country that 
are highly vulnerable to soil degradation in the event of bush debilitation, death of 
bushes and abandonment of tea lands owing to low productivity.   
 
Impacts of climate change  
The rising CO 2 levels, ambient temperatures and variation of rainfall are likely to 
affect carbohydrate assimilation, chemical attributes of tea leaf, pest and disease 
infestation, soil quali ty, evapotranspiration  and rainfall pattern influencing land 
productivity and quality of tea. Studies carried out at the Tea Research Institute of Sri 
Lanka have shown that most of the tea growing areas in low country, mid country and 
Uva are either highly vulnerable or vulnerable to climate change  impacts while those 
in up country  are relatively less vulnerable . Therefore, it is imperative that appropriate 
adaptation measures be implemented to minimize  adverse impacts of climate change 
on the tea sector.   
 
Adaptation strategies  
Moisture stress, excessive soil moisture /flood  (extreme rainfall), heat stress, high 
intensity of weed, pest and disease infestations and soil degradation (soil erosion, loss 
of organic matter , etc.) are the key issues i nfluencing tea land productivity  under 
climate change . Therefore, the following  adaptation strategies  have been identified  
addressing those key issues and their impacts on growth and tea yield. In addition , 
raising awareness of tea growing communities on climate change and its impacts is 
imperative to successfully face various unforeseen challenges connected to climate 
change.  
 
Attention should also be paid for seasonal weather forecasting and meteorological 
disaster predication s issued by relevant organizations  and landslide prone 
areas/locations to prevent/minimize weather related disasters.  
 Page 2 of 2 
  Planting of tea cultivars, improved seedlings and grafted plants well-adapted  
to adversities of weather (drought, water logging, warm climatic  conditions , 
etc.) and tolerant to various pest and diseases.  
 Establishment and management of shade trees and shelter belts to modify 
micro -climate  around tea bushes . 
 Soil and soil moisture conservation and rain water harvesting  (contour and 
leader drains, stone terrac es, SALT hedgerows, mulching, burying of pruning , 
etc.) 
 Improvement of soil organic matter content in tea lands  (shade trees, cover 
crops, mulching compost  and bio-char application , soil conservation, etc.)  
 Integrated pest and disease management  
 Improvem ent of soil aeration and drainage to remove excess moisture from the 
root zone  
 Irrigation during dry spells  
 Judicious use of fertilizers to minimize loss  of nutrients (e .g. nitrogen)  due to 
high temperature and extreme weather conditions  (slow release fertilizers, 
timing and frequency of application , etc.)   
 Selection of lands with suitable growing conditions (soil and environmental) 
for replanting/new planting  of tea  
 Crop diversification to reduce risk of mono -cropping  especially where s oil 
conditions a re marginal for tea cultivation   
 Diversification of  income through other avenues (e .g. Ecotourism, livestock 
farming, bee -keeping , etc.) to compe nsate impending losses from tea  
 Afforestation, reforestation and establishment of energy/timber plantations and 
watershed in tea plantations  
 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
Copyright  
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or 
information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission from the 
Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle  
 