1 
 TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
Issued In: August 2021                Guideline No: 03/2021  
 
INDUSTRY GUIDELINES  FOR  
COPPER ALLOY CAST CO MPONENTS IN ROTORVAN ES 
 
Introduction  
Rotorvanes are used in manufacturing Orthodox broken type teas. These Rotorva nes consist 
of copper alloy cast components for effective maceration of tea. Quality of made tea and 
dhool production rate are affected as a result of wear and tear  of the components . A study 
was conducted on sample components for chemical composition, har dness and microstructure 
and causes for high  wear and tear  were identified. This guideline briefs basic information on 
casting requirement, test method and quality requirement for the copper alloy cast 
components .   
Scope  
 Requirements for casting component s and 
 Test Method  for cast components  
 
Components  
  Vanes  for all sizes of rotorvanes  
  Resistors  for all sizes of rotorvanes  
 
Requirements  for casting components  
 Materials  
o Main ingot m aterials needed are Cu, Sn and Zn.  
                        Or  
o Scrap mat erials with known c hemical composition.  
It is highly recommended to work with a particular foundry to obtain cast 
components made of ingot  material . When the cast components are wasted , it 
can be reused to maintain chemical composition in the cast componen ts closer 
to the requirement.  The cost of new components  could be  reduced with reuse 
of the material.  
 
 Method of casting  
o Sand casting  
o Preparing quality green sand with the characteristics: refractoriness, chemical 
inertness, permeability, surface finish , cohesiveness, flowability, collapsibility, 
and availability/cost. (Described in Annexure A ). 
o Melting order – ‘Cu’ first followed by ‘Sn’ and ‘Zn’ at the final stage . 
Losses of elements  in the form of vapour occurs as the melting point of Cu, Sn 
and Zn va ry as 1,085 °C, 231.9 °C and 419.5 °C respectively.  
o Casting components of different thicknesses at appropriate temperatures. 
Recommended casting temperature s for producing components of different 
thickness es are given in Table 1. 2 
 Table 1. Casting tempera tures for components of different thicknesses  
Thickness of components  Casting temperature  
< 15 mm  1,200 °C  
15 - 40 mm  1,170 °C  
> 40 mm  1,130 °C  
 
Test Method for cast components  
 Optical emission spectroscopy  
 
Testing facility  
 Industrial Development Boa rd, Ratmalana and  
 Department of M aterials  Engineering, University of Moratuwa . 
 
Quality requirement for  casted components  
 Chemical composition (%) of Cast components,  
o Cu  86 – 89 %  
o Sn  9 – 11 %  
o Zn  1 – 3 % 
o Pb  1 – 1.3 %  
 
Range of percentage is given to t he elements considering practical difficulties in 
achieving exact composition. Allowing lead is to improve the machinability. As 
the cast components are contacting tea, extreme care should be taken not to allow 
lead content exceed the maximum of 1.3%.  
 
 Smooth Surface  
 Free from flaws, seams, cracks  
 Minimum impurities  
 3 
 1. Green sand  characteristics:   
Refractoriness : The sand's ability to withstand the temperature of the liquid metal being 
cast without breaking down. Sand with too low refractoriness will melt a nd fuse to the 
casting.  
Chemical inertness : The sand must not react with the metal being cast.  
Permeability : The sand's ability to exhaust gases. This is important to avoid  casting 
defects , such as blow holes and gas holes  
Surface finish : The size and shape of the sand particles defines the best surface finish 
achievable . Finer particles lead to producing a better finish. However, finer the particle,  
the permeability become s worse.  
Cohesiveness  (or bond ): The ability of the sand to retain a given shape after the pattern is 
removed.  
Flowability : The ability for the sand to flow into intricate details and tight corners.  
Collapsibility : The ability of the sand to be easily st ripped off the casting after it has 
solidified. Special additives can be used to avoid cracking and  hot tears  in the casting 
during cooling or with long freezing temperature ranges .  
Avai lability/cost : The availability and cost of the sand is especially  important because 
for every ton of metal poured, three to six tons of sand is required.  Although sand can be 
screened and reused, the particles eventually become too fine and require period ic 
replacement with fresh sand.   
It is economical to use two different sands,  
a. Facing sand - this sand will be built up around the pattern to a thickness  of 30 to 
100 mm.  
b. Backing sand - the sand that fills in around the facing sand. This sand is simply 
silica sand with only a small amount of binder and no special additives.   
 
2. Green sand additives  
a. Base sand  
Silica sand of AFS grain size 50  - 60 is generally  used.  
b. Clay  
The best bonding clays are bentonites .   
c. Coal dust  
Used mainly in iron foundries with so me being used in non -ferrous foundries.  
d. BENTOKOL  
BENTOKOL additives are blends of natural clays to which have been added 
specially selected essential volatiles to provide both bond and volatile content .  
e. Water  
Water is needed to develop the clay bond bu t at times  it cause s casting defects.  
 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
COPYRIGHT  
All rights reserved. No parts of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by 
any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or information storage and 
retrieval, without permission in writing from the Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka.  
 Annexure A  