Page 1 of 3 
 TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
Issued in: December 2018   Guideline No: 04/2018  
 
GUIDELINES FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF ENERGY PLANTATIONS WITH  
 GLIRICIDIA SEPIUM AND CALLIANDRA CALO THRYSUS  
 
Introduction   
Tea processing requires a large quantity of fue lwood . Usually, it is estimated that 1 -
1.5 kg of fuelwood is required to  process 1  kg of made tea. Additionally, plantation 
workers also need  fuelwood for their domestic use.  Often, the total demand of 
fuelwood cannot be met within the plantation . In addition t o use of fuelwood for tea 
processing, it can be used as an energy source for generating electricity (Dendro 
power). As a result , there is a growing demand for fuelwood in Sri Lanka.  In order to 
ensure regular and assured supply of fuelwood for industry req uirement, marginal tea 
fields  (low yielding)  and those abandoned owing to land suitability limitations (poor 
soil conditions, rocky lands, excessive slopes , etc.) and scarcity of labour , can be 
converted to fuelwood plantation s with Gliricidia sepium  and Calliandra calothrysus . 
Calorific value of both the above trees varies from 4,500 - 4,900 kcal per kg. While 
Gliricidia can be successfully established in the low , mid and Uva region s (up to 900 
m elevation) , Calliandra is most suitable for mid and up count ry regions  within the  
elevation rang e 300 - 1300 m.  
 
In addition to the use of woody part as fuelwood, the leaves and top most part s of the  
branches can be applied to tea fields as a green manure and mulch , adding nutrients to 
the soil  and to conserv e soil moisture . In addition to this, these leaves can also be 
easily used for producing compost.  Nitrogen fixation ability of these leguminous trees 
helps to improve soil fertility.  Further, these two species are well adapted to varying 
soil and climatic condit ions, require less intensive agronomic input s and labour , and 
withstand regular lopping . 
 
Based on the field observations  done by TRI at different locations , the following 
agronomic practices need to be adopted when  Gliricidia  and Calliandra  are used for 
establishment of f uelwood  or energy plantation s.  
 
 Land should be prepared by levelling adequately  to locate rows of energy crops  
and all soil conservation measures i.e. preparation of drains and stone terraces 
etc. should be adopted as necessary . 
 
 The idea l spacing for planting of Gliricidia  and Calliandra  as fuelwood is 1 m x 
1 m,  having a plant density of about 10,000 plants per hectare . Adequate 
amount of healthy planting materials ( stumps or nursery plants) should be kept 
ready accordingly.  Page 2 of 3 
 Establishme nt of  Gliricidia  
 The diameter and depth of hole should  be 30  cm and 45 - 60 cm  respectively . 
 
 While filling hole , soil should be mixed with dolomite at the rate of 200  – 225 g 
per hole. It is  preferable to add 1 kg of compost per planting hole . 
 
 Select 6  - 8 mon ths old mature stumps of about 1.5 m in length and 5  - 7.5 cm in 
girth . 
 
 When planting 30 - 40 cm of the b asal end of the stump should be buried in soil . 
 
 To prevent desiccation and encourage bud break, the stump can be white -
washed using 20%  hydrate d lime . Top end of the pole should be covered with a 
ball of mud or piece of polythene.  
 
 Stumps should ideally be planted during wet weather within 48 hrs from  
lopping . 
 
 Care should be taken not to damage the bark of the planting end . For this 
purpose , the stump  can be inserted into an alavango hole prepared before.  
 
Establishment of Calliandra  
 Calliandra can be established directly by sawing 3  - 4 seeds per planting hole 
and leaving one vigorous plant while removing other seedlings . 
 
 Alternatively,  plants can be  raised in poly bags in the nurser y and 4  - 6 month 
old plants can be established in the field . 
 
Lopping and aftercare  
 First lopping of branches can be done about 12  - 18 months after planting .  
 
 Branches can be l opped at 8 - 12 month interval s befor e flow ering . 
 
 In order to produce a well spread frame with sturdy branches , the other branches 
should be cut keeping a stump of about 30 cm ( 1 feet) above the previous cut . 
 
 Soft and leafy portion of the branches should be removed and fuelwood can be 
cut to a le ngth of a bout 1 m for easy storage  and use .   
 
 Moisture content of the fuelwood should be reduced to 20% or below, by 
staking them under rain cover for about  2 weeks  before use . 
 Page 3 of 3 
  A well-managed  Gliricidia  plantation produces  about 25 - 30 tons  of fue lwood 
per hectare per year and Calliandra  produce  about  10 - 15 tons per hectare per 
year in dry weight  basis  (20% moisture).  
 
 Cost benefit analys is have shown that management of energy plantations with 
Gliricidia  and Calliandra  is an economically viable v enture  and the pay -back 
period varies from 5 - 6 years .  
 
Therefore , tea growers , stakeholders  and entrepreneurs are encouraged to establish  
fuelwood  or en ergy plantations , converting  marginal  and un -productive lands into 
economic use  to ensure  assured fuelwood supply . It will assist to conserv e 
environment and bio -diversity . 
 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
Copyright  
All rights r eserved . No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, electronic or mechan ical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or 
information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission from the 
Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle.  
 