Page 1 of 3 
 TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
Issued in: December 2018   Guideline No: 05/2018  
 
GUIDELINE  ON IRRIGATION OF TEA FIELDS  
 
Introduction  
Tea is cultivated predominantly as a rain -fed plantation crop . Lack of water bodies , 
geographical limitations and ina bility to use conventional irrigation techniques such 
as flood and furrow irrigation have hindered the application of irrigation in tea 
plantations. Introduction of micro irrigation techniques  viz. drip and sprinkler 
irrigation, frequent drought occurrence s and productivity  improvements etc. have 
prompted stakeholders to seek alternative techniques to manage soil moisture levels. 
Also, high impact droughts, impacts of climate change and poor replanting rate s have  
created renewed interest s in adopting suitab le irrigation  techniques . It is evident that 
rudimentary to modern irrigation techniques have been practiced in tea fields alt hough 
adoption of such techniques is not feasible  in the  entire plantation . However, t here are  
tea fields, where irrigation c ould be applied with the development of in-situ water 
bodies . Since management of soil moisture levels plays a pivotal role in sustainable 
crop production , it is necessary to advise stakeholders to take correct decisions on 
adoption of suitable irrigation  techn iques . This guideline serves as a basis for decision 
making on irrigation as a potential drought mitigation strategy in tea plantation.  
 
Selection of irrigation as an option for drought  mitigation  
There are many other drought mitigation techniques recommen ded by the TRI (Please 
refer Advisory Circular No . PA 2 on Drought Mitigation in Tea Plantations, Issued in 
January 2011). However, unlike those strategies, irrigation involves critical technical 
inputs and financial commitments. Therefore, decision making  should be 
economically viable. Hence, it is necessary to carefully analyze the drought effects in 
a particular location or estate and decide whether such damage can be prevented by 
other less costly drought mitigation techniques.  
 
Fields to be irrigated  
1. Newly planted tea fields are more vulnerable to drought, as their root system has 
not fully developed. Returns in investments for irrigation would be higher in the 
long term when new cl earings (immature fields) are  irrigated.  
 
2. Low elevation tea plantations  are more vulnerable to drought because of high 
ambient temperature during dry periods.  
 
3. Within estates too, there could be fields, frequently subjected to drought damage 
due to the geographic location, poor soil and presence of drought susceptible 
cultivar s. High yielding cultivars usually gives higher returns to irrigation.  Page 2 of 3 
 4. Irrigation of tea fields earmarked for pruning is usually not economical, unless 
they are threatened with death  of plant s due to drought.  
 
Requirements for irrigation  
Before making the final decision on irrigation, following factors need to be carefully  
considered.  
 
1. Availability of water source:  Availability of a permanent and a reliable water 
source is essential for successful irrigation during the drought. In view of this , 
potential ma ximum duration of drought according to the estate location needs to 
be found. Many water sources in tea estates are dry during severe drought periods.  
It is also necessary to ascertain whether the use of water source for irrigatio n 
affects estate community  and down streams users  to avoid potential social 
conflicts . 
 
2. If such a reliable water source is not available, it should either be develop ed (e.g. 
Irrigation well) or water should be transport ed from the  bowsers, as and when 
necessary. However, it should be remembered that transportation would increase 
operational cost depending on the distance to the water source.  
 
3. Selection of irrigation system depends on the level of investment, type of water 
source and technical expertise available to maintain the syst em etc., 
 
Selection of i rrigation method/s ystem  
Irrigation can be done manually or by using permanent or portable irrigation system. 
The permanent irrigation system can be either drip or sprinkler irrigation.  
 
Manual i rrigation  
Manual watering is the most popular irrigation method in tea plantations , where water 
is applied to plants by workers manually . Normally, water is transported by a bowser 
or rarely using a nearby water source. Advantage of this method is that there is no 
investment cost for an irriga tion system. H owever, operational cost would be high as 
workers have to be employed for irrigation. The chances for under irrigation that 
could result in a poor response, is also one of the main disadvantage s. 
 
Drip i rrigation  
Drip irrigation is the applic ation of irrigation water through emitters  fixed to an 
irrigation tube. The most economical drip irriga tion system for tea is the in -line drip 
tubes. It is the most efficient irrigation water application system which ensures 
uniform water application throu ghout the field. Pressure requirements to operate a 
drip system are  low. Also,  application of irrigation water through drips prevent, 
unnecessary wetting of plant stems.  
 Page 3 of 3 
 However, drip system usually requires higher investment cost than sprinkler system. 
Also, water quality should be at a higher level to prevent possible blocking of 
drippers. Certain technical knowledge is necessary for operating a drip system and 
intervention of irrigation specialist may be required for trouble free operation.  
 
Sprinkler i rrigation  
Sprinkler irrigation can be done by a permanent set of sprinklers or a mobile sprinkler 
head. Alternatively, gun -type mobile sprinkler heads, capable of covering a radius 
usually more than 15  m, c ould also be used. Investment cost for such gun -type 
sprinkler is lower. However, additional man power is necessary to operate such 
systems in the field.   
 
The operation and maintenance of the system is user friendly.  Also, it gives a cooling 
effect to the plant micro environment, which is important dur ing drought periods. In 
addition to drought mitigation, sprinklers can be used to minimize frost damage in tea 
at high elevation. Some disadvantages of the sprinkler irrigation system are high 
energy use, low application efficiency and potential theft and vand alism of the 
permanent irrigation equipment.  
 
Economics of irrigation  
Return on investment for irrigation depends mainly on investment/operational cost 
and plant response to irrigation (yield increment and plant survival). The investment 
and operationa l cost vary according to the irrigation system. Estimation of system cost 
needs to be obtained through a service provider or vendor. Based on the potential 
drought damage, return on investment for irrigation could also be worked out. In 
general, investment  cost for drip irrigation system for a unit area is higher than the 
permanent sprinkler irrigation systems. However, water application efficiency for drip 
irrigation system is higher than that of sprinkler irrigation systems. Hence drip 
irrigation system i s best suited for water limited locations.  Mobile gun -type sprinkler 
irrigator could be used as a low investment strategy depending on the exigencies of 
the situation.  
 
Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
Copyright  
All rights reserved . No part  of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or 
information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission from the 
Director, Tea  Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle.  
 