Page 1 of 4 
 TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA  
 
Issued in: December 2018   Guideline No: 03/2018  
 
GUIDELINE FOR CLEFT GRAFTING IN TEA  NURSERIES  
 
Introduction  
Grafting is the technique of combining  plant parts or plants together with desirable 
characters so that they will unite and grow as a single unit .  This is a standard 
horticultural practice, which involves the combination of two plants of different 
genetic constitution , having different characters. In tea cultivation , it is advantageous 
to have a combination of s ome of desirable characters such as high yield, quality, 
drought tolerance and pest and disease  tolerance which could be obtained by grafting. 
Success of graft ing depend s on the  compatibility  of cultivars  and skills of workers . 
  
Technique of cleft graftin g tea     
Cleft grafting involve s two components of plant parts which are referred as scion and 
stock. Cutting s for grafting are obtained from the same type of shoots as employed for 
vegetative propagation of tea. Shoots for taking cuttings to be used as sc ion and stock 
should be  obtained after proper pruning of mother bushes . Cuttings should be kept in 
water and grafting  should be carried out in a shaded place . Other nursery practices are 
same as that of the conventional  nurseries (Please refer TRI Advisory  Circular No. 
PN2 on Tea Nursery Management, I ssued in November 2009) .  
 
Scion: This is the upper component of the graft . Desirable characters for the scion are 
high yield , quality and  pest and disease  tolerance (e.g. Blister Blight ). It is a single 
node c utting where the basal 1.5 cm  of stem is shaved off on two sides to form a 
wedge  (Fig. 1).  
 
                         
  
 
 
Stock: The stock or basal part of the graft is also a single node cutting , but h ere the 
stem  above the node of the stock should extend up to about 2.5 cm. A cleft of about Fig. 1. Preparation of scion  1.5 cm wedge  2.0 cm stem  Page 2 of 4 
 1.5 cm deep is made  by splitting the stem  above the node using a budding knife . The 
cleft should not be too deep and should correspond to the length of the wedge in the 
scion  (Fig. 2). The desirable characters for th e stock are better rooting, drought 
tolerance , and pest and disease tolerance abilities viz. parasitic Nematodes.  
 
                                                     
  
 
Union of scion and stock : Wedge is insert ed into the cleft until it is firmly held 
without exposing the cut so that the leaves of stock and scion will be on opposite sides  
(Fig. 3). The g raft union is then gently tied using a strip of long polythene  
commencing  from the bottom upwards  or clipped (grafting clips) to prevent water 
travellin g in (Fig. 4).   
 
        
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  2.5 cm stem  1.5 cm cleft 
2.5 cm stem  
Fig. 2. Preparation of stock 
Fig. 3. Inserting wedge of the scion into cleft of the stock Page 3 of 4 
  
 
 
 
Planting of the grafted cutting s: Grafted cutting  is planted in soil filled nursery bags 
up to the  petiole of  mother leaf of stock , ensur ing its axillary bud  is not covered with 
soil. After planting , the soil ar ound the cutting should be gently pressed to avoid air 
pockets . Then watering should be done thoroughly to saturate soil in the nursery bags 
and the bed . The nursery bed should be covered using a 300-gauge  transparent 
polythene sheet laid over s emi circula r hoops of about  90 cm ( 3 feet ) height from the 
ground . It should be sealed on all sides for maintaining high humidity . High shade 
should be provided as for the conventional nurseries at 180 cm ( 6 feet ) height. If the 
moisture inside the propagator is  found inadequate, the polythene may be opened for 
watering again and sealed  immediately . After 2 - 3 months period , propagator can be 
opened gradually , over 4  - 5 days . Polythene strip or grafting clip should be removed 
one month after opening the propagator . The other nursery after care operations  such 
as watering, fertilizer application , re-stackin g, hardening of plants, encouraging early 
spread  (disbudding and thumb  nailing ) and pest and disease control  etc. are 
undertaken as in the case of an ordinary nurse ry. While the axillary bud of the scion is 
allowed to grow , the shoot arising from the stock should be removed only after 5 
months from planting of cutting.  
 
Planting in the field:  A well grown grafted plants could be trans planted in the field 
after a nursery period of 8 - 10 and 10 - 12 months in the low and up country growing 
conditions  respectively . 
 
Compatible graft combinations  
As all the cultivars are not compatible with one another, large number of 
combinations have  been tried out  by the TRI  before  making  firm recommendations . 
Based on nursery and field performances, f ollowing graft combinations are 
recommended as compatible combinations .   
 
 
 
 
 Fig. 4. Use of polythene strip (left) or grafting clip (right) to tie the graft union  
Page 4 of 4 
  For drought tolerance  
Region  Scion Stock  
Mid country  TRI 2026  DN 
Up/Mid country  TRI 2023  CY 9  
Low countr y TRI 2025  DG 39  
Low country  TRI 2026  DG 39  
Low country  TRI 2026  H 1/58  
Low country  TRI 3025  H 1/58  
 
 For quality  
Region  Scion  Stock  
Up country  TRI 777 TRI 2025  
Up country  TRI 777 TRI 3019  
Up country  TRI 777 TRI 3020  
Up country  TRI 777 TRI 4052  
Up country  TRI 777 TRI 4053  
Up country  TRI 4067  TRI 3019  
Up country  TRI 4079  TRI 2025  
Up country  TRI 4079  TRI 4052  
 
 For blister blight tolerance   
Region  Scion  Stock  
Up country  TRI 3072  TRI 4006  
Up country  TRI 3072  TRI 4053  
 
Tea Research Institute of S ri Lanka  
Talawakelle  
Copyright  
All rights reserved . No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, scanning or 
information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission from the 
Director, Tea Research Institute of Sri Lanka, Talawakelle.  
 